= European Liberal Youth: time to act! =
[ [[SwpatcninoEn| News]] ]
----

''The following press release was sent by Lymec to FFII by mail. Unlike Lymec assumes Toine Manders work in JURI was quite the opposite of what they assume and as a ALDE rapporteur responsible for the weak JURI result.''


== PRESS RELEASE: No to Software Patents: Time to act!  ==

Whilst the European Parliament is readying itself to gather the 367
votes necessary to amend the Council's proposal in the second
reading, scheduled to take place on 6th July, the European Liberal
Youth (LYMEC) calls upon ALDE MEPs to support the 21 cross-partisan
compromise amendments tabled by Michel Rocard MEP and backed by
Andrew Duff MEP, and to reject the directive in case these essential
amendments are voted down.

Roger Albinyana i Saigi, President of LYMEC, noted: "I am
disappointed by the weak results of the vote of the Legal Affairs
committee on the 20 June, which proves once again the strength of
pro-Software Patents lobbies such as the Business Software Alliance
and of big software corporates like Microsoft. It shall be repeated
that empirical studies show that software patents stifle innovation
by increasing entry costs and favour large over small businesses".
He added: "we should learn from the US experience and recognise that
the software industry is different than others: there is no market
for software components and such patents will lead to an increase of
legal disputes and - as a consequence - discourage innovation". 

The European Liberal Youth also supports ALDE MEP Toine Manders'
proposal aiming at bringing the work of the European Patent Office
(EPO) under the democratic control of the European Union. "The EPO
has, in contradiction to the letter and spirit of the written law,
granted tens of thousands of patents on rules for computing with
conventional data processing equipment over the last years, this is
simply unacceptable" stressed Roger Albinyana i Saigi, underlining
that the EPO is "something from the past, another of these
undemocratic intergovernmental creatures".

ENDS

If you are a journalist and would like more information, please
contact Aloys Rigaut, +32 2 237 0146; office@lymec.org

== ANNEXE ==

Background: European Liberal Youth, LYMEC, is a pan-European youth
organisation seeking to promote liberal values throughout the EU and
particularly through the European Liberal Democrat and Reform (ELDR)
party and group in the European Parliament. With 210,000 members
from 75 organisations in 41 countries, LYMEC is active across the
breadth and diversity of the European continent.

The European Liberal Youth unanimously adopted a resolution against
software patents at its recent Congress in Amsterdam, on 8-10 April
2005, and subsequently signed the Foundation for a Free Information
and Infrastructure (FFII)'s petition against software patents. It has
since then actively engaged itself in an electronic campaign against
the patentability of softwares and invited the ALDE Group to follow a
same line.

 For more information, click here
{http://www.lymec.org/repository/uploaded/Final%20resolutions%20-%20adopted.pdf}(page
16) 
