The Race to the Bottom

(Proposed article for ZDNet)

Even as the US wakes slowly up to the catastrophe that is its patent system,
the EU is racing to the bottom, led by the the European Union internal market
commissioner Charlie McCreevy, cheerleader for the "harmonisation" movement
that wants to introduce a "Community Patent" in 2006.

Every industry has its nightmare monster.

In the IT sector, it is software and business process patents. These
multi-headed hydras are nameless, unkillable beasts, protected by
impenetrable armour, and they are voracious hunters. They hunt in packs,
catching the unaware, stripping them of their flesh, leaving only bones
and footprints and the horrible smell of ruin.

Last year, a coalition of European Parliamentarians, small and medium
firms, dedicated activists, and journalists, beat back software patents,
leaving the field open for businesses to innovate freely, without fear
of aggression from patent firms.

And now the software patents are back, and they are hungry.

The keyword is "harmonisation".  For many of us Europeans, harmonisation
has been a force for good.  It's the reason we can travel without visas,
using the same money all across the continent.  It's the reason we can
do business all over the EU with minimal red tape.  Except for a few
extremist Eurosceptics, harmonisation has meant the removal of petty
local barriers and the opening of a large and vibrant market.

But in the last years, the EU power cliques have gotten bored.  They
have given up trying to woo the citizen, and instead they are focussing
on consolidating their power.

We saw this last year, with the fast and brutal passage of the "Data
Retention Directive", a surveillance law that makes a mockery of our
happy European ideals of liberty and privacy.  This law shows the
dark side of "harmonisation".

And in the vacuum left by the absent EU Constitution, the officials of
the Council and Commission are doing everything they can to take over
power from the elected parliament, in the name of "harmonisation".

Which brings us back to McCreevy and his vision of a EU in which patents
are the bread and butter tools for innovation.  Here is one question
from a questionaire from the Commission, on the subject of patents:

"If you are responding as an SME, how do you make use of patents now
and how do you expect to use them in future? What problems have you
encountered using the existing patent system?"

For any small-to-medium enterprise involved in technology, the question
is bizarre.  We don't avoid software patents because they're expensive.
We avoid them because they are horribly dangerous.  This has been
explained many times, by better people than me.  It comes down to this:
SMEs don't need cheaper patents, they need clear protection from junk
patents and the lawyers that follow them.

And software and business process patents are, by their nature, junk
patents.  How can one describe an abstract process in words?  It is
not possible.  Even common words shift meaning, and technical jargon
is so variable that its use in contracts is a recipe for disaster.

Why do I say, "contract"?  Because, fundamentally, a patent is a
contract between an inventor and society.  The contract is meant to
say, "you, the inventor, document your invention so that others can
benefit, and in return we, society grant you exclusive license on it,
for a limited period".

But what the contract says nowadays is, "you, the client, are welcome
to claim any idea or concept as your 'property', just so long as you
encrypt your claim in sufficient linguistic armour and make it worth
our while financially."

The patent offices have really gone downhill since Einstein left.

There are still a few bright lights in the general darkness.  First,
the idea of the European Patent Office acting as judge and executioner
on EU patents - what McCreevy is pushing for - raises the hackles of
senior judges (real judges, that is).  Last week, Judge Jacob in the
UK commented that what was needed were independent patent courts,
filled with national judges.  These comments from a very senior UK
judge show that the push to centralise judicial power in the hands
of EU bureaucrats will not happen peacefully.

Secondly, we're seeing growing realisation in the US that the patent
system there has become a sick joke.  It's not just software patents,
but junk patents of all varieties that are flooding the market, with
over 200,000 patents pending.  It's impossible to say what the effect
of these patents is on business, but my guess is that we are seeing a
real and dramatic shift of innovation to regions of the world with
less oppressive patent regimes.  And these shifts are generational:
it can take fifty years to build up a culture of research, but only
a decade to lose it.

I believe the negative impact of software and business process patents
on the US economy will become so obvious within five years that it will
seriously disrupt the global patent cartel, that coalition of monopolists,
specialised IP firms, IP attornies, and compliant officials, who have
overseen the race to the bottom since IBM hacked the first software
patent into existence in the early 1990's.

For me, there is one clear way to save the patent system before it
collapses into itself, taking a large chunk of our more vulnerable
hi-tech sector with it.  That is: we must restate the original patent
contract, and redefine current patent practice to follow.

The misleading term "intellectual property" is, I believe, at the root
of the problem.  This term suggests that patented inventions are
property, and as such, must be forcefully protected against theft,
expropriation, or any weakening.  Strong property rights are accepted
as the basis for a capitalist system (if you can't own your home, you
are unlikely to invest in it, for example).  So, by implication,
strong intellectual property rights must be good for businesses.

Which is, ironically, not the case.  Strong IP regimes do not create
innovation, they create monopolies, and monopolies are good for only
monopolists.

Patents, like copyright, are "intellectual licenses".  That is, we as
a society grant the author or inventor a license to the exclusive rights
on an invention or work, in return for their contribution.  A license
has conditions.  It is enforceable, it is documented, it is fair, and it
can be withdrawn.

McCreevy's vision of ever-cheaper "intellectual property" is a sham.  It
takes a broken idea, and corrupts it even further.  We don't need more
patents, more fake "ownership", and more extortion and litigation.  What
we need is honest reform of the patent system, both in the US and the EU,
and we need this before it is too late to save our hi-tech sectors.

A patent should be granted only when there is clear public interest to do
so.  The burden of proof must be on the inventor, who must document their
invention so accurately that anyone can reimplement it.  There must be a
clear agreement on the value of the invention, both in lifespan and in
monetary terms, since the license fees will be based on this.  There must
be solid space for fair use, since the true owner of all knowledge and
inventions is society itself, and this ownership can never be rescinded.

The patent office must primarily defend the public interest and act
strongly against those who abuse their intellectual licenses.  A patent
is either used fairly (easy to measure, in monetary terms), or it is
abusive and the licensee should be punished.  Yes, I'd like to see the
EPO turn into the institution that protects the public interest against
patent extortion.

The EPO claims to be doing this.  But it is actually doing the exact
opposite.  It is the difference between an arms salesman and a police
man.  Both will claim that "they allow people to defend themselves",
but the policeman does not leave ruin and devastation behind him.

Lastly, the conflict between patents and copyright must be resolved for
once and for all.  Software methods and business processes are not
inventions, they are ideas, and these must be excluded from patenting
because they are too vital to license on an exclusive basis. For ideas,
like language, we grant license over indivdual works, through copyright.

For Europe, it's a simple choice.  Either we follow the US in the race
to the bottom, and when we arrive there, we'll find ourselves in the
sleazy company of IP lawyers, IP trolls, and monopolists.  Or, we seize
our chance to change history, and we reform our patent system so that
it actually promotes innovation, instead of strangling it.

I'm not naive enough to think this will happen, soon.  Reform of the
patent system is a huge task, requiring an honest collaboration between
industry and politics, something that is rare in Europe.  In the short
term, we must ensure that if the Community Patent comes into existence,
it must explicitly rule-out software patents.

To make this possible, small and medium-sized firms must speak up.  It
is SMEs, with visionary ideas and heavy personal investments, that keep
the technology sector alive.  And it is SMEs, without teams of lawyers
and deep pockets, that are hardest hit by software patents and the
litigation they bring in their trail.

If you live in Europe, you can help by contacting your member of Parliament
now.  The Community Patent will not go through the European Parliament -
it will be decided by the Council of Ministers without any real democratic
process.

Contact your MP today, and let him or her know that you want a fair patent
system, not a race to the bottom.  Ask your MP why, six months after the
E.P. rejected software patents, they are coming back, in stealth, with no
democratic process.  Ask him or her to explain how a system that is being
roundly criticised in the US can be so beneficial in Europe.  And ask him
or her how a patent system that rewards those who write the most confused,
opaque, and abusive patents, can promote innovation.  Ask him to protect
your rights, as a voter, and make it clear that you have a choice.

It's going to be a tough battle, but we're fighting for the very survival
of our hi-tech industries and all the other businesses that depend on them.
It's one of those times when we need heros.  Judge Jacob is a hero.  You
too, can be a hero.
