--> [:SwpatcninoEn: News], [:SwpatmicrosoftEn: Microsoft], [:Hindrup040601En: Monti to Hindrup]
----

The day after the announcement of the European Commission's decision
on ... Microsoft's share values were up by 3 percent.

While the Commission imposes a one-time fine of 1% of the liquid cash
reserves of Microsoft on the company, the decision implies an extreme
interpretations of the TRIPs treaty, by which Microsoft is authorised
to charge a "fair remuneration" for the use of any proprietary
protocols on which it has obtained patents in Europe.

This means that, unless the European Parliament's amendments to the
proposed software patent directive are fully accepted, Microsoft will
have received official green light from the European Commission for
killing its main competitors.

As the Register [http://www.theregister.co.uk/content/4/36520.html reports]:  
 
   Far from penalizing Microsoft, Wednesday's decision by the European
   Commission assures a bright future for the company as a patent
   licensing operation, according to one representative only two open
   source interests called to testify before the investigation.
   Because Microsoft will be allowed to pursue royalty revenue from the
   APIs it publishes, Jeremy Allison says that the projects such as
   Samba, which he jointly leads, may face a prohibitive hurdle.
   Microsoft's competitors use software such as Samba to access file and
   print services on Windows machines.
   The EC's investigation was brought about by Sun Microsystems, which
   through ventures such as 'Project Cascade', tried to do in proprietary
   form what Samba and similar projects such as Novell's Evolution
   Exchange client do in software libre form: provide a compatible,
   interoperable infrastructure to compete with Microsoft's enterprise
   software. Microsoft's rivals have become increasingly reliant on these
   free software projects. But Wednesday's decision unexpectedly divides
   the anti-Microsoft camp, says Allison.
   "The EU had a wonderful opportunity but it got greedy," he told us
   yesterday. "This splits the competition."


Moreover, as Hakon Wium Lie, CTO of Opera Software, one of Microsoft's few remaining competitors in the web browser market, says: "It is never fair for any company, no matter of what size, to charge any
competitor for the mere use of 
protocols which are required for
interoperation.  The only fair remuneration for such use is no remuneration at all.
That's why at the World Wide Web Consortium we decided that web standards must be
royalty-free.  The same should apply to all commmunication standards."

This position has also been stated by the European Parliament in the amended
Art 6a on the limits of patent enforcement with respect to
interoperability.

However, the European Commission is fighting against Art 6a of
the European Parliament, based on the same extreme interpretations of
the TRIPs treaty which it used to further the monopoly interests of
Microsoft in the competition case.  

YY, professor of competition law, explains what is wrong with the
Commission's interpretations of TRIPs : ....

See also

        http://swpat.ffii.org/analysis/trips/
        http://swpat.ffii.org/papers/eubsa-swpat0202/itop/

The Commission seems to have adopted these interpretations of TRIPs under
pressure from Frits Bolkestein, the commissioner of the directorate
for the internal market.

Bolkestein's directorate has been threatening the Parliament and
misinforming the Council in order to promote extreme interpretations
of TRIPs and to pave the way unlimited patentability of software
and business method patents in the EU.

The texts which Bolkestein's directory has been using in this process
came from the European Patent Office and from the Business Software
Alliance.  The software patent directive proposal carried the
handwriting of the same circles close to BSA and Microsoft which
appeared in a document of the US government against the European
Parliament's Article 6a which was circulated to MEPs by the US
representation in Brussels in early september 2003.



When the EU Competition Commission initiated the lastest investagation against Microsoft in 2001, they included the following in their press release.
http://europa.eu.int/rapid/start/cgi/guesten.ksh?p_action.gettxt=gt&doc=IP/01/1232|0|AGED&lg=EN&display=

             To enable alternative server software to interoperate in the 
             prevailing Windows PC and server environment, technical interface 
             information must be known. Without such information, alternative 
             server software would be denied a level playing field, as it would 
             be artificially deprived of the opportunity to compete with Microsoft's 
             products on technical merits alone. The Commission believes that Microsoft 
             may have withheld from vendors of alternative server software key 
             interoperability information that they need to enable their products to 
             'talk' with Microsoft's dominant PC and server software products. Microsoft
             may have done this through a combination of refusing to reveal the relevant 
             technical information, and by engaging in a policy of discriminatory and 
             selective disclosure on the basis of a "friend-enemy" scheme.

It is time to remind  Mario Monti, Competition Commissioner that any licensing that Microsoft offers that is incompatible with the competing CIFS file and print services software that the protocol complaint was based on, the GPL'ed SAMBA, would be engaging in a policy of discriminatory and selective licensing on the basis of a "friend-enemy" scheme.
