= A Letter to the Editor of Western Mall: Patent is an Anti-Social Act =
----

by Maurice !McCarthy -- Maurice.!McCarthy at bluewater.com

''The views expressed on this page are not necessarily the views of the FFII, and are the sole responsibility of the author identified above''

=== Introduction and Motivation ===

It has dawned on me that what has happened with patent is that the idea of
it is the master of "econocratic" political thinking. Yet, rightly, the
person should be master of the idea and not vice versa. They are slaves to
an entombment of their own making. The idea of patent has become an
institution which is looked upon as an unalterable fact of social reality.
They think, "We must always have patent." Whereas they have a fairly good
case for now the 'must always' is flat wrong.

Since one can only react to reality in 2 ways, emotively or by bringing the
objectivity of thought to  bear upon it, Then they need smacking hard in the
feelings. The purpose of which is to so shatter their illusion that it
causes a rethink. 

I have decided to adopt "Patent as an Anti-Social Act" as my personal slogan
and make no apology whatsoever for the inflammatory letter below. The
Western Mail is the morning paper of the Principality of Wales and I've sent
it there because the last of Lord Sainsbury's workshops on the meaning of
'technical contribution' will be held in Cardiff where the paper is
published.

If I can find an email address for The Big Issue, a weekly magazine which
the homeless sell on the streets of Britain, then I'll send it there too.
Because of the internet they have international links in South Africa and
other places. The whole point is to run the idea that something insidious is
happening in the EU (again) but this time it is Britain who is pushing it.

=== The Letter ===

 Sent: Tuesday, March 22, 2005 03:35 PM
 To: 'readers at wme.co.uk'

 Patent is an Anti-Social Act
 Maurice McCarthy
 22 March 2005

If you were in your right mind would you take a knife and carve up your
own brain?  Substitute patent for 'knife' and software for 'brain' and this
is what the British  government is promoting in Europe. Amongst the Welsh
MEP's only Jill Evans of Plaid Cymru seems to have any inkling of the
dangers in what is happening. 

A European patent costs a small fortune to buy and maintain, takes 6
years to grant and can last for 20 years. My computer is now 8 years old and
it is so out of date that it is two orders of magnitude below the processing
power and storage space of 'entry level'  computers today. If the hardware
moves this fast then it is obvious that the software is even more fleet of
foot. Patent would be a leg-iron on the software economy because it builds
upon what has already been achieved. It evolves - and assumes that it has
the right to all prior achievement. (Imagine trying to evolve a human being
if someone put a  patent on growing the cortex or standing upright.) 

The internet is clearly The medium  the foreseeable future, just as TV
is now. The freedom of the media is the most critical political guarantee of
democracy. Patent would clearly destroy the freedom of this medium, carve
its integrity to pieces.

Worst of all software is a form of human knowledge. It is one thing, a
single network  which shadows the internet. Depriving people of the exercise
of this knowledge is an affront to human dignity and therefore an attack on
every culture in the world, an attack on culture in general. 

Anti-economic, anti-democratic and anti-humanitarian the Software Patent
directive is the most pernicious piece of legislation imaginable. Patent is
supposed to be a concession by the public for the greater social good.
Social good? Social evil!

(Friday 8th April sees the last of Lord Sainsbury's workshops on defining
what 'technical contribution' means with respect to software patents. It is
being held in St. David's Hall, Cardiff at 13:30.)

=== Appendix ===

The Welsh word for Wales is Cymru ("Cum-ree") which literally translates as
the Communists; "those who hold things in common". Since it comes from a
time when property was universally common property this has always amazed
me.

Manuel Castells has apparently written three tomes on the 'network society'
and a quote was given from him as, "It is not Big Brother you should worry
about but Little Sister." To me, patent on software IS Little Sister, the
Creutzfeld-Jacob Disease of the new Logos. Interesting too that the best
neurological and cognitive science descriptions of consciousness are as a
network organisation of the firing in the brain. No longer do they look for
consciousness or the self in a specific neural correlate. Similarly if the
world is One World then software must be one network.
