En email circulating in the European Parliament mentions a word-file where Kauppi amendments on RAND had the signature of Tim Frain (Nokia).

  -------- Original Message --------

  Sir - The "Computer-Implemented Inventions Directive" (CIID) is a
  blatant attempt, by the Council and Commission of the EU, to engulf
  software in the patent-system. If successful, it will expose European
  software-producers to crippling claims from predatory patent-holders
  and, thereby, paralyse all but a few big players in the field.

  Next week, the EU-parliament will vote on the CIID and will either
  approve it, reject it, or (applying the Rocard-amendments) knock the
  stuffing out of it. Whichever way it goes, the result is likely to be
  close, because leading members of two, large parliamentary groups, the
  European People's Party (EPP = "Conservatives") and the Alliance of
  Liberal Democrats for Europe (ALDE = LibDems) are committed to
  supporting it, while the Independence and Democracy Group (ID, which
  includes the UKIP) and the Greens, the Socialists, and also many members
  of the EPP and ALDE, will vote against.

  The proposal of the CIID, by the Council and Commission, appears to
  have been tainted, from the first, via a "revolving door" with big
  business. According to the EuroLinux Alliance, Microsoft's Francisco
  Mingorance worked with the Commission, in 2001, to produce the first
  draft http://petition.eurolinux.org/pr/pr17.html while, in 2002, Detlef
  Eckert, a senior official with the Commission, went to work for
  Microsoft http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/2523757.stm

  Also in 2002, seeing the CIID as a stitch-up on behalf of big
  corporations, the parliament threw out the proposal; but, in 2003 the
  Council+Commission brought it back, and, this year, it passed its
  parliamentary "committee-stage", under the diligent guidance of
  Klaus-Heiner Lehne and Piia-Noora Kauppi, of the EPP, and Janelly
  Fourtou, of the ALDE.

  Besides being an MEP, Lehne works for a legal consultancy called
  "Regulatory Affairs", which was founded, in 2003, by the Taylor-Wessing
  company. Taylor-Wessing is a firm of patent-lawyers. The following is
  from its web-site
  http://de.taylorwessing.com/de/n_aktuell_det.asp?UID=49:
  Our services: Taylor Wessing has an enviable track record in advising
  IP-rich businesses. We are ranked a market leader in intellectual
  property law. We can offer our clients advice on the entire range of
  intellectual property disciplines. With regard to patent work, Taylor
  Wessing's expertise covers all aspects of contentious and noncontentious
  work. Current Issues in Patent Law: Members of the patent teams at
  Taylor Wessing continue to be at the forefront of developments in patent
  law across Europe. Such developments include: ! Implementation of the
  European Union's (EU) Biotechnology Directive ! EU's draft Directive on
  the legal protection of software ! Harmonisation of European patent
  litigation across the EU ! The creation of a European Community Patent
  and a Community Patents Court.

  If passed, the CIID will provoke a bonanza of patent-litigation.
  Might it not be suggested, therefore, that, in the matter of the CIID,
  Herr Lehne is susceptible to a conflict of interest?

  Lehne's loyal supporter, the lovely Ms Kauppi MEP, does not seem to
  have financial connections with the patent-lobby, but it does appear,
  from the respective ".doc-file", that her critique of the
  Rocard-amendments (as circulated to all MEP's) was written by Tim Frain,
  the Head of Intellectual Property at Nokia and a leading member of the
  big-business, pro-patent campaign.

  The most resolutely smoking gun, in this little line-up, however, is
  Mme Janelly Fourtou. Her husband is the CEO of Vivendi, and the Fourtou
  family owns options EUR40 million on Vivendi stock (maturing next
  November) the value of which depends largely upon the legal viability of
  software patents in Europe.

  Tom Wise MEP, UKIP (ID-Group)
