 -------- Original Message --------
 Subject: voting recommendation for Hungary

 Hi!

 We vote for parties, not for candidates.

 I cannot recommend anyone who have strong commitment,
 sorry.

 However I think that voting to small parties are better
 for democracy, as the EP vote on swpats also shown. It is
 because small parties are more responsive.

 We have two small parties with chance to have an elected candidate:
 SzDSz (Liberals) and MDF (EPP).
----
 -------- Original Message --------
 Subject: politics in Poland
 
 Hi,

 Here you have page with position of political parties and politicians
 http://ffii.org.pl/index.php?s=politycy

 PiS , Law and Justice, against softpat
 SDPL, Polish Social Democracy, it is working on its position
 Unia Pracy, Union of Labour, against, declaration at the conference in
 the parliament
 Zieloni, Greens, against, election program
 Balicki, senator
 Bielan, MP
 Dorn, MP
 Pinior, candidate to Europarl, SDPL
----
 -------- Original Message --------
 Subject: Portuguese MEPs

 I'm only focusing on "probably ellectable candidates".

 Have stated their position against software patents:

 Ilda Figueiredo (PCP) (GUE/NGL)
 Sérgio Ribeiro (PCP) (GUE/NGL)
 Note: the official line of the party is with us. If you want to put all
 the candidates see
 http://swpatwiki.ffii.org/EuropeanElection2004CandidatesPortugal#head-09197b170c03e1aa71f40c50131eadeb2b67abfd

 Miguel Portas (BE) (probably a new left group - not defined yet)

 Have not answered the questionnaire but voted with us in the plenary
 vote (and some of them helped us a lot):

 Luis Queiró (PP) (UEN*)
 José Ribeiro e Castro (PP) (UEN*)

 Regina Bastos (PSD) (PPE-DE)
 Carlos Coelho (PSD) (PPE-DE)
 Vasco Graça Moura (PSD) (PPE-DE)

 Paulo Casaca (PS) (PSE)

 * They might become PPE-DE

 I'd love to have a link like: If your favourite candidate is not on this
 list, please send him the following questionnaire (link) and send the
 results to the list pt-parl@lists.ffii.org so we can add him/her to this
 list.

 Portuguese version: Se o seu candidato preferido não está nesta lista,
 envie-lhe o seguinte questionário (link) e envie as resposta para a
 lista pt-parl@lists.ffii.org de forma a podermos adicioná-lo(a) a esta

link is here: http://ffii.org/~bkaindl/questionnaire/
----
 ---------- Forwarded message ----------
 Subject: Stemmeanbefaling til valget søndag 13. juni

 Hej Venner.

 Som I ved har jeg beskæftiget mig en del med softwarepatenter og er
 derigennem blevet draget ind i politik. Det viser sig at det kommende 
 Europaparlamentsvalg nu på søndag (den 13. juni) indirekte kan blive 
 afgørende for den sag.

 Det pudsige er, at der er uenighed om sagen på tværs af partierne. Hvis du endnu
 ikke har låst sig fast på, hvem du vil stemme på, vil jeg gerne opfordre dig til
 at stemme personligt på en af nedenstående; din personlige stemme kan være afgørende
 for, om netop den person bliver valgt som kandidat. Husk: Hvis du ikke gider stemme
 søndag, så kan du stemme på folkeregistret og sandsynligvis også dit rådhus (Kbh
 og Frb har særåbnet i den anledning). Medbring ID.

 Liste A: Anna Haaland Hansen
 Liste B: Camilla Hersom
 Liste F: Pernille Frahm
 Liste J: Bent Hindrup
 Liste K: Jakob From Høeg
 Liste N: Ole Krarup
 Liste O: Mogens Camre
 Liste V: Ellen Trane Nørby

 Liste C: (Kristian Kolind) Chancen er desværre stor for at din stemme 
          indirekte går til Gitte Seeberg, som er for softwarepatenter.
          Vælg derfor hellere en anden liste medmindre du __vil__ stemme C.

 Du vil gøre mig en stor tjeneste, hvis du sender denne anbefaling videre
 til andre, som du tror vil sætte pris på anbefalingen.
----
