= Random Thoughts about Lobbying =
--> 
[ [:LobbyEn: Lobbying]
]
----

Here is ideas that were written on a mailing list; I'm just transferring them here randomly until someone does something with them.

----

http://wiki.ael.be/index.php/MEP-Position-Lobbying-Guide

----

- Clothing rules for salesmen apply: dress always at least at the same
level as your client. I would recommend dark suit with white t-shirt
(neutral colors and the white shirt is usually used by leaders).

- Always be calm. If the MEP you're talking to with has a real interest
on the subject (pro or against) he will make you difficult question. If
you need to train some tricks on how to avoid an impulsive reaction
check http://www.ieeepcs.org/columns.html (Handling tough situations).

- Be as little technical or philosophical as possible. If you have to refer to any kind of
software don't use brand names. If you need a certain concept like
ASCII, explain what it means.

- Always remember: you're not meeting them as an IT person, but as
someone who wants to change policy.

- Some MEPs will try to dismiss this issue as too technical. I usually
commented something like "I really wish that argument weren't being used
to hide the real issues..." and then I would present the limitations and
their effects on SME and individual developers.

- Learn the arguments against. Explain that "legal certainty" can be
obtained without software patents. For the other issues read (at least
twice): http://www.debatpublic.net/Members/paigrain/texts/elevenquestions. It will give an incredible
insight for a discussion on this subject, and it dismantles arguments
like the need of patents to support innovation and such.

----

Have good press contacts. It is easy to compile a list of press people
based on public data sources. Maybe their association have an
address book (ours has) from which you can build. Keep personal
touch with journalists.  In crucial times, inform the press daily
about the happenings. In less crucial times do not send them updates
more than monthly.

Your updates should be short, interesting, and nontechnical. Attach
pictures and longer writings for those who want to make it either
more interesting, or want to go deep into the thing. Your updates
should be cut&pasteable to newspapers.

It is good to have  people dedicated on PR. The efficiency of lobby
work is very dependent on PR efficiency.

You should approach politicians and decisionmakers through personal
contacts if possible, and from bottom up. If you are presented by a
good relationship, you have better chances. Study your partner, ask
google and your friends about him/her. You should have an overall
view of the personality before the meeting (which can be changed of
course).
Be very polite, always ask whether the occasion is acceptable for
them if you bother them on phone. No one is your man before you could
talk to him/her by person. Know what the goals and preferences
of your partner, and show how the issue is important to __him/her__.

If you deal with tough people (enemies) publickly (where the goal is
actually to convince other people), do not let them drive
the topic, stick to the viewpoint which shows your right, and don't
let them dive in unimportant details. Whenever you do this you
will less and less chance to have their help, so do it only to
real enemies.

If you deal with tough people when the goal is to reach an agreement,
you should forget your personal preferences. You should build on
the statements and goals of the partner, find the points of agreement,
and have a solution which is acceptable for both. It is much like
Aikido: use the momentum of your enemy to build your strategy on it.

----
