= UK Independence Party MEP Candidates and Software Patents =
--> [[ElectUkPart0405En| UK Parties]]
----


Statement by Damian Hockney, UKIP #2 candidate for London Region, 21 May 2004

  MORE THAN USUALLY PATENTLY MAD - SOFTWARE PATENTS FUDGE IS A MINEFIELD
  
  
  The UK Independence Party opposes the latest changes to the Directive. 
  "We believe that software patents are a barrier to competition, freedom
  of expression and economic development," says MEP candidate for London
  Damian Hockney.
  
  "The party also believes that such changes should not be forced on 
  member states."
  
  Lobbying by big organisations and effective monopolies to protect their
  positions always seem to get the greatest hearing within the European 
  Union, and the politicians involved from member states have in many 
  cases been stumbling around bewildered speaking for positions they neither
  understand nor know how to express.
  
  For the UK Independence Party, the process over software patenting is an
  example of everything that is worst about the process of decision making
  and lobbying within the institutions of the European Union. The wrong 
  decisions are made by the wrong people, acting on partial information by
  those who do not understand what they are talking about. In many cases,
  they fix agreements specifically against the desires of the parliaments
  they allegedly represent. Misleading language has found its way into the
  rules.
  
  U-turns are made in secret amid a background of backroom dealing.
  Accountability is simply overridden, and then the ultimate outcome is 
  forced onto the statute books of nations who may be specifically 
  opposed to the measures.
  
  You simply have to look at some of the actions of the European Patents
  Office against the spirit of previous rules to see where these developments
  will lead to.
  
  As with the European Arrest Warrant, the issue of software patents strikes
  at the heart of liberty, competition and free markets: inevitably this 
  process will lead to the entrenchment of monopoly, higher prices, stagnant 
  development in the EU, the displacement of the best and brightest to nations
  outside the EU and an end to small firms being able to compete in the market.
  
  Cynics might suggest that some aspects of this were not side issues but the 
  actual intent.
  
  Attempting now to influence national governments is surely an example of
  doing things back to front, but it appears to be the main hope. It is doubly
  ironic that many of the monopolies and big lobbyists attempted to claim that
  any one who would not support the changes had somehow ruled themselves out
  of the democratic process by opposing the European Commission's desires.
  
  More than usually patently mad, even for the EU.
  
  
  
  Damian Hockney, UK Independence Party, 109-110 Bolsover St, London W1W 5NU - tel 020 7631 3757.



Nigel Farage MEP's office (South-East region) said UKIP would do all they can to oppose further IPR extension measures which "is being proposed for the benefit of large, often multinational, companies and not for the benefit of smaller businesses or individuals".  
(/Source:/  MJ Ray's [[http://mjr.towers.org.uk/proj/eurovote/#se|Project Eurovote]])
