## -*- dok: LtrErjosCons0503; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -*-
= Draft Letter by Erik Josefsson to Council Diplomats =
->
[ [[LtrCons0503En| Letter Campaign]]
]
----

''With slight changes by Hartmut Pilch.  Please feel free to recycle, translate, adapt, whatever, and send to Council diplomats of your country''
 
 Dear Mr/Mrs.

 Due to the Commissions unexpected denial of the Parliament's request for
 a new fresh start on the software patentes directive, the future of the
 directive is now in the hands of the Competetiveness Council which will
 meet in a few hours (10:00 Monday morning, 7 March 2005).

 As well unexpected, but on the contrary most welcome, is Denmark's
 decision last friday to, at this meeting, propose a solution for
 renegotiating the text in the Council (which would be a different means
 to the same end). This is technically done by first withdrawing the
 directive from the published list of A-items, and second to propose it
 to be discussed as a B-item on a subsequent Council meeting.

 Please accept my apologies for urgently calling on not only your
 attention, but also for your help, but there is an immediate risk the
 Commission will not accept such a proposal. It is most likely the Commission,
 and maybe even the Council Presidency (Luxemburg), will argue a once
 agreed upon text can never be (re)negotiated, even if there no longer
 exists a qualified majority for it.

 This is a) not true according to the Council's Rules of Procedure b)
 against the explicit will of member state parliaments like the German
 Bundestag, the Dutch Tweede Kamer and the Spanish Senate.

 Please forward the following message to the ministers and
 representatives who speaks on behalf of your country tomorrow morning:

 * A breach of the "unwritten rule" that political agreements
   automatically turn into common positions is neccesary in this case 
   and will not lead to general instability of political agreements.  
   This case is unique in many ways.  Moreover, the precedent of 
   reopening negotiations on a political agreement makes the Council's
   lawmaking process more accountable, more legitimate and more stable.
   Only those who are used to ignoring national parliaments can have a
   reason to fear this precedent.
   
 * The directive project must not be sacrificed for the fear of
   setting a "dangerous precedent". The danger is rather the opposite, that the
   Council commits to imaginary rules that do not serve a legitimate purpose. 
   It is therefore of paramount importance to protect the directive project 
   against withdrawal attempts.

 It would be most valuable to have your active support, knowing that the
 linking between the Council diplomats and political realities both in
 national parliaments and among european citizens must basically be done
 by hand by dedicated politicians.

 To my knowledge, a renegotiation proposal will be supported by Spain,
 Italy, Austria, Belgium, Poland and the Netherlands.

 Please encourage your national represenatives to support it too.

 Best regards,
