## -*- dok: LtrFfiiCec0502; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -*-
= 300 Demonstrators waiting to deliver message to Commissioner McCreevy =
->
[ [http://demo.ffii.org/ Demo]
| [:LtrFfiiCons050217En: Message to Council]
| [:SwpatcninoEn: Patent News]
]
----

''Brussels, 17 February 2005, 11.30 -- 300 Demonstrators stood outside the building of the European Commission waiting for someone to come out and accept delivery of the following message.  People at DG Internal Market were however in a meeting and unable to come out.''

Erik Josefsson, FFII representative in Brussels, reports his impressions:

  In spite of the cold weather, there is a warm atmosphere out here. 
  The Brussels police is wonderful, very cooperative.  

  Many of the civil servants who are passing by here evidently know of the
  problem for which we are standing here and feel sympathetic to our cause.

The message delivery was then postponed.  It was used at the [:Pres050217En: press conference].

== The Message to Commissioner McCreevy ==

Dear Commissioner,

The European Union has become a Banana Republic.  The division of
competences between the legislative and the executive branch is not
functioning as it should.  And there is a lot you can do about it.

We are coming to your doors as representatives of a large network of
productive forces of the knowledge economy.  We have come to perceive
the European Commission's Directorate General for Internal Market as
part of a voracious monster, a hostile force that is threatening the
freedom and vitality of European citizens, particularly those on whome
the "Lisbon strategy" depends, and that is regularly using deceptive
means in pursuing these ends.

The current critical situation surrounding the software patent
directive is the direct result of a series of past monstrous actions
of DG Internal Market.

In 1997, when the directive project started, the explicit goal was to
bring Europe in line with US practice, and the proposed means did not
differ from those which DG Internal Market is continuing to push
today.  DG Internal Market went on by consulting only corporate patent
lawyers, later by declaring these to be the "economic majority", by
locking away unfavorable studies, by refusing to discuss the matter
with other directorates, by ignoring critical studies conducted by the
Commission and opinions of the EU's consultative organs, by
threatening to move the dossier away from the European Parliament back
to the EPO, by instigating the Council to ignore the Parliament's
amendments.

This path has now come to a dead end.  It is time for a fresh start.
The change of commissioners, along with the Parliament's restart
initiative, provide an excellent opportunity.  Another option would be
for the Commission to propose a reopening of negotiations in the
Council (B-item) on the basis of a new approach.

The Commission is in fact best positioned to move the process forward.
Administrations are usually best equipped to put the will of the
elected legislators into an appropriate form.  The previous Commission
failed to perform this role, and now is an opportunity to make up for
the failure.

Monster words such as "computer-implemented inventions" should stay
out of any fresh proposal.  Such words are freshness killers.  Whether
software solutions should be inventions in the sense of patent law is
an open question that needs to be discussed impartially.  The European
Commission must speak the plain language spoken by the skilled person
in the fields of engineering and data processing.  It must openly
consider all legislative choices and and measure them by their effects
on the productivity of Europe's citizens and enterprises.

We wish you a fortunate hand in moving this directive project forward,
and in moving DG Internal Market toward a healthy role in a Europe
characterised by a parliamentary democracy and a burgeoning knowledge
economy.

Yours sincerely.
