## -*- dok: WsjLehne050705; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -*-
= Wallstreet Journal reports prominently about conflicts of interest of Lehne et al =
->
[ [[KlausHeinerLehneEn| Lehne]]
| [[KurtJoachimLaukDe| Lauk]]
| [[AngelikaNieblerDe| Niebler]]
]
----

''5. July 2005 -- Wallstreet Journal Europe reports on page 1 of the printed edition about conflicts of interest of leading christian-democrat members of parliament who have been pushing the European People's Party toward a line which would in effect have imposed unlimited patentablity of all practical problem solutions on Europe.''

----

 Politics, Business Mix Freely
 In Europe Parliament
 Patent-Law Reversal Shows
 How Members' Outside Jobs
 May Aid Corporate Interests

 By MARY JACOBY and GLENN R. SIMPSON
 Staff Reporters of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
 July 5, 2005; Page A10

 BRUSSELS -- In his job with a leading German patent-law firm,
 Klaus-Heiner Lehne advises corporate clients on European Union policy.
 In his second job, as a member of the European Parliament, Mr. Lehne
 also shapes policy: In June, he helped rewrite a patent proposal more to
 the liking of big software makers.

 Two other European legislators from Germany who have favored stronger
 software-patent protections also have industry ties. One works with
 another top patent-law firm, and another sits on the board of U.S.
 software giant Veritas Software Corp. and holds options to buy 85,416
 shares of Veritas stock, according to U.S. securities filings.

 All three illustrate how weak ethics and disclosure laws in Brussels,
 the seat of EU institutions, allow legislators to influence the outcome
 of debates without their connections receiving attention from the public
 or their colleagues. In this case, stronger patent protections that
 earlier had been rejected by Parliament were revived after a campaign
 led by Microsoft Corp., SAP AG, Siemens AG, Nokia Corp. and other
 companies with portfolios of software patents. In May, legislators with
 outside jobs in the financial industry helped push through late
 amendments to European banking regulations that were favored -- and in
 some cases written -- by the industry.

 Mr. Lehne and his employer, the law firm Taylor Wessing, said he doesn't
 work directly on patents and that they are careful to avoid conflicts of
 interest. Mr. Lehne said he wasn't required to advise fellow members of
 Parliament about a potential conflict during committee debate on the
 software legislation, because EU law requires notification only if the
 member has a direct financial interest at stake.

 "I would consider that inappropriate," said Ulrich Mueller, who heads a
 new public-interest group in Cologne, Germany, called LobbyControl. He
 decries a lack of "public scrutiny of these very close relationships
 between parliamentarians and special interests."

 Proprietary-software companies' hopes for codifying a system of patent
 rights in Europe appeared to dim this year in the face of strong
 opposition from the "open source" movement, which aims to preserve
 public access to certain programming information to foster collaboration
 among programmers. But they were revived in a June 20 vote in
 Parliament's Legal Affairs committee after a heavy lobbying and
 public-relations campaign. If approved, the measure would allow
 companies to continue to win legal recognition of basic software
 processes and techniques, much as in the U.S.

 While most big firms say this will protect their huge investments in
 innovation, some smaller technology firms contend it stifles innovation
 if wealthy corporations abuse the process by patenting basic methods in
 the public domain.

 A few big U.S. companies, including International Business Machines
 Corp., Sun Microsystems Inc. and Red Hat Inc., also oppose strengthening
 patent laws in Europe. These companies offer open-source software at
 nominal cost to help businesses run their operations, and make money by
 selling consulting services and upgrades rather than collecting
 royalties from software patents. Patent-law opponents also mounted an
 energetic lobbying campaign.

 The full European Parliament is slated to vote on the directive
 tomorrow. If opponents can't halt the legislation, it then would go to
 the EU's council of member countries for approval.

 Mr. Lehne emerged as leader of the drive for language sought by big tech
 firms that would establish their ability to obtain certain types of
 software patents. In addition, he offered more than a dozen pro-patent
 amendments of his own, many of which were approved by the panel.

 Unlike members of the U.S. Congress, European Parliament members are
 permitted to hold full-time outside jobs. They must note those jobs on
 disclosure forms, but have no obligation to divulge whether their
 outside employers have business ties to firms that lobby Parliament.

 In an interview, Mr. Lehne said there was no conflict between his job
 with Taylor Wessing as head of its Regulatory Affairs practice and his
 job as a parliamentarian. "I am a lawyer, not a lobbyist," Mr. Lehne
 said. He added that any criticism of his outside interests "is coming
 from people who have lost the argument" on patents. He also said he
 doesn't work on patent matters for the firm's clients.

 Mr. Lehne and Peter Willis, who heads Taylor Wessing's Brussels office,
 said companies lobbying for the patent law hadn't hired the firm in that
 capacity, but that they didn't know if those firms use Taylor Wessing
 for other work.

 However, Taylor Wessing looks for business among companies that support
 the patent law: The firm says it offers a 10% discount to members of a
 German software-industry group called Bundesverband Digitale Wirtschaft,
 which supports increased patent protections. "I'm not sure we're
 actively lobbying on behalf of any particular interest," said Mr. Willis.

 Microsoft, also a major contributor to pro-patent industry groups such
 as the Business Software Alliance, wouldn't say whether it had hired
 Taylor Wessing in any capacity since the patent law was proposed in
 2002, according to a Brussels spokesman. An emailed statement from the
 spokesman said only that Microsoft hadn't hired the law firm "on any
 matters related" to the patent directive.

 A spokesman for SAP, which makes enterprise-management software for big
 business operations, said when asked if the company has had any kind of
 financial relationship or dealings with Taylor Wessing: "SAP has never
 worked with Taylor Wessing, neither on [[the |patent legislation]] nor
 other legal issues." A Siemens spokesman didn't respond to a request for
 comment.

 Mr. Lehne isn't the only EU legislator in the patent debate with outside
 interests. Kurt Lauk, the Veritas board member, hosted a hearing on the
 issue that featured a speaker from Microsoft. People who attended the
 hearing said the original list of speakers was weighted heavily toward
 patent proponents until owners of small businesses complained.

 Mr. Lauk said he believes he doesn't have a conflict of interest,
 because his memberships on the boards of Veritas and other companies
 preceded his election to Parliament. But he said he plans to abstain
 from the parliamentary vote this week "to avoid the appearance of a
 conflict."

 Angelika Niebler is another parliamentarian who backed big tech firms'
 positions on the patent law, and in March of last year, she strongly
 endorsed another piece of legislation the firms sought to toughen
 intellectual-property laws. Ms. Niebler also is a consultant in Munich
 to law firm Bird & Bird, which specializes in patent and
 intellectual-property law. Ms. Niebler didn't respond to a telephone
 call and an email seeking comment. A Bird & Bird spokesman, contacted
 Monday, had no response.

 - --Cassell Bryan-Low contributed to this article.

 Write to Mary Jacoby at mary.jacoby@wsj.com and Glenn R. Simpson at
 glenn.simpson@wsj.com
