= MEP Zverina wants more IP protection =
----
''Czech MEP Jaroslav Zv&#283;&#345;ina (EPP-DE) wants the Commission to provide protection for software developers. He argues that competiveness of Europe is lagging further behind the US or China and needed strong IP protection rules. However his question does not address whether he wishes protection of software developers against anticompetitive legal instruments or requests the application of these. While the wording suggests the latter market players from the SME sector generally want the former. He further asks for EPLA or Community Patent regulation which is already under discussions as he should know as a member of the legal affairs committee..''  

WRITTEN QUESTION P-2518/06 by Jaroslav Zv&#283;&#345;ina (PPE-DE) to the Commission (31 May 2006)

Subject:	Intellectual Property (IP) protection in Europe

High-tech companies in Europe, particularly SMEs!, are struggling on a daily basis to compete in the global marketplace.  To this end, the ICT industry is constantly having to support R&D for innovation in order to remain competitive and help the EU achieve the ambitious goals set out in the Lisbon Agenda.  However, the results are limited because the EU has still not been able to deliver on the Lisbon promises and ensure fundamental changes and improvements for the ICT industry. Consequently, the high-tech industry in the EU is lagging further behind global competitors, including China and the United States.

One of the most crucial preconditions for the promotion of high-tech growth and employability in Europe is a business environment that provides for strong IP protection.  This would ensure that venture capital is made available, particularly for SMEs, and that creators are being sufficiently protected and nurtured within Europe.

How will the Commission ensure that software developers in Europe are being properly protected? Will the Commission ensure patent protection and/or a workable litigation agreement, or at least complete harmonisation of substantive patent rules? Furthermore, when will the Commission propose new legislation to promote strong IP and patent protection in the EU?
