#acl TrustedGroup:read All:

''This text was largely written by Erik, I'm just keeping the naming of the page consistent with the rest of the MEPS letter.''


= Appendix B: The Case for Rejecting the (Un)Common Position of the Council =

The case for rejection is a case against adopting a bad directive. Legal uncertainty over whether or not software patents are enforceable is better than the certainty that they are, especially since there are still other open avenues to structurally attack their validity outside this directive 
project. A bad directive would be very harmful to such initiatives.


== Long term European legislative goals ==

Integration of the European Patent Office into the EU industrial policy legal framework via EU membership of the European Patent Organisation and via the "Community Patent" and a European Patent Court does not require this directive.

However, the integration project will be put at risk if the principles of this directive contradict the fundamental principles of the European Patent Convention, since the EPC would become an EU law. Codified contradictions would make application and interpretation of European patent law unpredictable forever.

As an example, the invention concept, which lies at the hart of patent law, would be severely compromised if the Council text were adopted and the European Patent Convention remains unchanged. After all, the latter says a computer program is not an invention, while the former can only be interpreted consistently as meaning an explicit introduction of the patentability of computer programs.

== The European Patent Office ==

A bad directive would also make other initiatives to clarify the situation meaningless. As pointed out by many MEPs in 2002 already, the EPO has not yet exhausted its own possibilities to clarify the interpretation of the EPC when it comes to software patents. Article 112 of the EPC gives any EPO Board of Appeal the opportunity to refer basic questions to the Enlarged Board of Appeal. Lawyers have interpreted unclarities in recent software patent case law as attempts to get the Enlarged Board of Appeal involved in order op a window for settling this matter properly.

Furthermore, the debate over the last two years has not left EPO unaffected. Public pressure from the European SMEs and the programmers they are supposed to serve has initiated work inside the institution. There are signs of change and windows of dialogue might open. The "EPO information day" in the EP is one example if the increased need felt by EPO to communicate in public. A bad directive would close those windows.


== The Commission ==

Even if Commissioner McCreevy has misunderstood the EP restart request as a plea for killing the directive, the Commission can not keep running away from its responsibilities. Other DGs than DG MARKT are very unhappy with the uncontrolled developments and may take action. For example, in August last your DG INFSO launched a three year study on the effects of software patents.

The development of the Commission's knowledge base and policy framework must transparently engage the full intellectual resources of the Commission -- it cannot be handled within DG Markt as a merely political decision. The Commission needs to take a look at this because it needs to develop competence in patent policy, and not just for software but more generally.

The Parliament is not capable of monitoring the impact of the patent system on a continuing basis and calls on the Commission to develop the capacity to do so. The Commission "appears to have misinterpreted" the Parliament's request for restart, so it now may have to be made stronger and more explicit.


== Conclusion ==

Finally, don't think for one minute that European software developers and SMEs will stand by passively while being robbed of their assets by holders of US-style software patents and software patent parasites. Just like IBM and other non-European interest groups pushed the Council text's interpretation of the EPC for many years at the EPO, a countermovement built upon the awareness raised during this directive process could turn the tide.

If no bad directive is adopted now, both the public and the European Parliament will still get several opportunities to stop the current EPO practice from becoming codified law. A bad directive would however make such initiatives very difficult, and some even impossible.
