= IPWatch: Industry Readies For Round Two Of EU Patent Directive =

----

''Ipwatch has published in its issue of February 2006 detailed notes about a pro-software patents conference in Prague.''

----

== Content ==

  By William New

  PRAGUE ­ Patent-dependent industries that spent heavily for lobby-
  ing on a failed directive on the patentability of computer-related in-
  ventions are learning from their mistakes as they prepare for the
  possible resurrection of the issue.
  Lobbyists attending a Progress and Freedom Foundation (PFF) in Prague
  on 17 January signalled they will move early on the patent directive
  issue following the European Commission's release of a question-
  naire asking for views on the patent system. Comments received by
  the 31 March deadline could lead to the formulation of a new pro-
  posed directive.
  "It's starting again," said Guenther Schmalz, director of IP for Europe
  for software maker SAP. "And I hope this time we will be better pre-
  pared."
  Schmalz, who lobbied on the directive last year, said industry "started
  very late" last time and will not let it happen again. He told Intellectual
  Property Watch that industry representatives developed informal
  networks last summer which are being revived. The networks are
  specific to each industry but also cut across industries that use patents.
  Schmalz added that the difficulty in getting cross-industry consen-
  sus on specific positions led to favouring informal networks rather
  than formal coalitions. For instance, companies that make software
  can have different purposes for patented products. His company is
  the third largest independent software maker in the world after
  Microsoft and Oracle, but other companies develop more software
  than SAP. Siemens has twice the number of software developers that
  SAP has, but Siemens develops the software embedded in its ma-
  chines rather than for retail.
  Schmalz said opponents of the directive had a three-year start on
  industry. He described the opponents' arguments and tactics, such
  as protests and an effective door-to-door campaign to convince par-
  liament members of the problems with the directive. Schmalz called
  for a "bridge" between positions on the directive, and posed ques-
  tions to be answered about the need for special rules for the protec-
  tion of computer-implemented inventions.
  He identified some areas of disagreement with opponents that will
  need to be resolved, such as interoperability and whether a require-
  ment that a software patent solve a technical problem would limit
  frivolous patents.

  Jonathan Zuck, whose Association for Competitive Technology in-
  cludes 4,000 large (such as Microsoft) and small companies, said
  patent quality is "key" to getting support for a directive. Zuck, along
  with Stephen McGibbon, Microsoft's representative for Central Eu-
  rope, and others at the meeting acknowledged a problem with frivo-
  lous patents. Zuck said they can never be entirely eliminated, but
  fears can be lessened by taking the quality problem "head on" and
  showing it can be addressed. He also said more emphasis should
  be placed on letting small businesses speak for themselves on the
  issue.
  Schmalz also mentioned an effort to develop a European commu-
  nity-wide patent, but said the requirement to put every filing in all 25
  EU languages makes it more expensive than obtaining a patent. Zuck
  said industry "desperately wants" community patents.
  Despite SAP's call for a bridge, some meeting participants fed dis-
  trust of the directive's opponents. PFF's James DeLong asked how
  the opposition got its funding, and whether it came from founda-
  tions. Schmalz replied that it came from open-source software com-
  panies and others shown on www.economicmajority.com. Speaking
  to the like-minded business audience, Schmalz also said that some
  industry representatives reported being personally threatened dur-
  ing the debates last summer.
  Meir Pugatch of the University of Haifa (Israel) and the pro-free-mar-
  ket Stockholm Network, warned industry representatives that this is
  not time for a "vacation" in the aftermath of last summer's defeat. If
  there is a need to be filled, he said, it will be filled by one side or the
  other, so industry would be advised to act quickly.
  Microsoft's McGibbon said EU Internal Market Commissioner Charlie
  McCreevy sees the patent directive as "fundamental" to Europe's pro-
  ductivity and competitiveness. Later, PFF President Ray Gifford said
  fear of lost competitiveness is an effective argument with policy mak-
  ers. Schmalz also raised the spectre of Asian software developers
  taking jobs from Europeans if measures are not taken to improve the
  European patent system.
  Highlighting the need for improvements in the patent system, DeLong
  said that in the United States, each patent application gets about 20
  hours of review, but that because of the backlog it takes two years
  for the decision to come out.

  Czechs Lean Toward Support for Directive
  
  Dana Berova, minister of informatics for the Czech Republic, predicted
  the discussions over EU software patents "will continue for years."
  She made clear that her country backs the patent directive, which
  she said should not change Czech law.
  In response to questions, she said the Czech government is not un-
  der pressure to oppose intellectual property protections, and that
  the education of lawyers and others needs to take place to improve
  the environment for patenting.
  Berova also said that in the debate over a development agenda at
  the World Intellectual Property Organisation that smaller economies
  should not have different levels of intellectual property rights appro-
  priate to their size and conditions. Differing levels of development
  should be addressed in other ways, she said.
  Karel Cada, president of the Czech Industrial Property Office, said
  Czech innovators do not recognise the advantage in obtaining pat-
  ents for their work, and that the number of patent filings in the coun-
  try is far below its height in the 1930s. The Czech Republic joined the
  European Patent Office in 2002 and the European Union in 2004.
  Cada argued against several concerns that had been raised by op-
  ponents of the software patent directive. For instance, he said it would
  not give patents to pure software, that only technical solutions would
  be patentable, and that no trivial patents would be granted.
  Separately at the PFF event, David Gross, a US State Department offi-
  cial who took the US lead on the World Summit on the Information
  Society, said on 17 January that "constant vigilance" is required this
  year to prevent new efforts to change the governance of the Internet.

  Please see full story on www.ip-watch.org.

== Links ==

http://www.ip-watch.org/weblog/index.php?p=195&res=1024_ff&print=0
