= The Draft EU Constitution strengthens role of ministerial patent officials in regulating "IP" =
-->
[ [[EuKonstitMond04Fr| francais]]
| [[EuKonstitMond04De| deutsch]]
]
[ [[EuKonstit040618En| EU Constitution 2004-06-18]]
]
----

 '''Art II-17'''

 2. Intellectual property shall be protected.

 '''Article III-68'''

 In establishing an internal market, measures for the introduction
 of European instruments to provide uniform intellectual-property 
 rights protection throughout the Union and for the setting up of centralised
 Union-wide authorisation, coordination and supervision arrangements shall
 be established in European laws or framework laws.
 A European law of the Council of Ministers shall establish language arrangements
 for the European instruments. The Council of Ministers shall act unanimously after 
 consulting the European Parliament.

  '''Article III-217'''

 1. The common commercial policy shall be based on uniform principles, particularly
  with regard to changes in tariff rates, the conclusion of tariff and trade agreements 
 relating to trade in goods and services and the commercial aspects of intellectual
 property, foreign direct investment, the achievement of uniformity in measures of
 liberalisation, export policy and measures to protect trade such as those to be taken 
 in the event of dumping or subsidies. The common commercial policy shall be
 conducted in the context of the principles and objectives of the Union's external
 action.
 2. European laws or framework laws shall establish the measures required to
 implement the common commercial policy.
 3. Where agreements with one or more States or international organisations need
 to be negotiated and concluded, the relevant provisions of Article III-227 shall apply.
 The Commission shall make recommendations to the Council of Ministers, which shall
 authorise the Commission to open the necessary negotiations. The Council of Ministers
 and the Commission shall be responsible for ensuring that the agreements negotiated
 are compatible with internal Union policies and rules.
 The Commission shall conduct these negotiations in consultation with a special committee
 appointed by the Council of Ministers to assist the Commission in this task and within the
 framework of such directives as the Council of Ministers may issue to it. The Commission
 shall report regularly to the special committee and to the European Parliament on the
 progress of negotiations.
 4. For the negotiation and conclusion of agreements in the fields of trade in services involving
 the movement of persons and the commercial aspects of intellectual property, the Council of
 Ministers shall act unanimously where such agreements include provisions for which
 unanimity is required for the adoption of internal rules. The Council shall also act unanimously
 for the negotiation and conclusion of agreements in the field of trade in cultural and audiovisual
 services, where these risk prejudicing the Union's cultural and linguistic diversity.
 The negotiation and conclusion of international agreements in the field of transport shall be subject
 to the provisions of Section 7 of Chapter III of Title III and Article III-227.
 5. The exercise of the competences conferred by this Article in the field of commercial policy shall
 not affect the delimitation of internal competences between the Union and the Member States, and 
 shall not lead to harmonisation of legislative or regulatory provisions of Member States insofar as 
 the Constitution excludes such harmonisation.


The constitution authorises the "internal market" policy organs of the Commission and Council, i.e. those parts of the executive that are particularly responsive to the patent establishment, to legislate in matters of "intellectual property" and to lock Europe even more tightly into worldwide "IP" treaties.

see [[EuKonstitMond04Fr| french version]].
 
