== Jochen Ahleff's Candidacy for Treasurer of the FFII  ==
jochen dot ahleff (at) t-online dot de

=== Introducing myself ===
Very few of you knew me before Holger Blasum resigned from his job of treasurer at the end of July 2005. Up to that time, I had been hanging around at some of the FFII's meetings in Munich for about a year, meeting (among others) Holger, Jan Wildeboer, Florian Mueller, Hartmut Pilch, Nico Manicone... When Jan asked me to replace Holger provisionally as the FFII's treasurer, I hesitatingly agreed on the condition that I was up to the job.

To cut a long story short, I am not able to replace Holger. From what I am hearing and have been seeing, Holger has been delivering 40-to-60-hour-working-weeks on end for months, organising events, doing the treasurer's job, in fact building one of the FFII's indispensable backbones. Nevertheless, since Holger had been overburdened, I found the treasury understaffed, and immediately found a lot of problems to fix, especially unpaid invoices and a bookkeeping that simply wasn't up to internal and external requirements. By hiring a professional bookkeeper and paying the left-over invoices, we were able to put the FFII afloat and financially operative again. The N******* case, which had been hanging above us like the sword of Damocles, was finally settled, and the FFII is up and running again. And Holger is still putting in much more hours than me into the FFII, cleaning up the mess piled up in the last three years. My only excuse for working less on FFII stuff is the regular 40-hour-job that I have to fill out.

=== Reasons ===
When I was asked to do the treasurer's job, I felt half-qualified, but 100% convinced that the FFII was extremely valuable and direly needed to protect us against software patents. I still see the FFII at the forefront fighting against software patents and as a very valuable, credible organisation in doing so, run by idealists and very capable people who know how to run a campaign successfully. Furthermore, I have always been interested in politics, and the FFII's cause points to a lot of boundary conditions that determine politics nowadays: European politics is made in Brussels; it is made by commissioners and other not democratically elected bodies more than by the EP or national parliaments; and it is tilted and manipulated by giant corporations and big-money interests, often so to the detriment of many of us. All of this, and having the chance to be involved, account for most of my motivation working for the FFII, since I hope that the FFII can make a stand for the ordinary European citizen.

Seeing that essential requirements went wrong, I feel the urgent need for the FFII to professionalise. I strongly suggest that we try to go about our business more efficiently, more effectively, with sufficient resources and, most of all, more responsibly. Some people bring the genius, the hard work and the clever arguments; but then, there are laws to abide, tax authorities to be satisfied, and an administration to be run properly.

=== CV/Qualifications ===
I am an electrical engineer by formation and a software developer by profession. I studied Electrical Engineering and enjoyed my post-graduate studies in Operations Research at the Technical University (RWTH) Aachen, Germany. I have been working as a software developer (mainly as a database programmer) for about 10 years; currently, I am working in an SME in Munich, Germany.

I have no formal qualification in accounting or bookkeeping whatsoever, and have never been the treasurer of any other organisational entity. Nevertheless, I feel qualified for the job of treasurer simply because I am managing my own property and finances, especially a house that I am renting out with an annual turnover of about 35,000 euros. Moreover, I am generally considered trustworthy and credible, and the FFII members here in Munich seem to agree with that assessment.

From some general considerations and from what I've seen at the FFII so far, I developed the following [http://www.ahleff.de/jochen/Concept.doc Concept for the position of Treasurer of the FFII] which I'd try to implement as well as possible, of course only in agreement with the newly elected board. Basically, I'd design the treasurer's job to be a managerial, political post, delegating as much work as possible to others who have more time or are more qualified in certain areas, notably the bookkeeper that we hired. The concept is meant to be one of the starting points of a discussion on professionalising the FFII.
