'''Mario Calderini, Giuseppe Scellato "Intellectual Property Rights as Strategic Assets: The Case of European Patent Opposition in the Telecommunications Industry", Università Commerciale "Luigi Bocconi" - CESPRI, WP n. 158, July 2004'''

Calderini and Scellato analyse all European Patent Office opposition cases of the years 1990-2002 in the telecommunications industry. They correlate firm's characteristics such as size of patent portfolio with characteristics of opposition cases. They find that, although the twelve major players in the field are involved in 48% of analyzed legal cases, only 14% of the opposition cases jointly involved two of them. Some of the major patentees, such as Nokia, Siemens, Ericsson, never filed an opposition against each other. They also find, that companies with few patents are significantly more likely to withdraw a patent even after it survived an opposition, and that they also are more likely to withdraw an oppisition if they filed one against a major patentee.

They explain these findings with strategic patenting by major patentees who intend to deter smaller companies or new entrants from the market by filing oppositions whereas they tend to settle disputes among themselves without costly and lengthy court cases - indications of collusive behaviour. For smaller patentees, typically smaller companies, a threat effect is a plausible explanattion of the differing behaviour.

The findings of this empirical study about patent oppoosition cases indicate how SME's are put at a disadvantage in the patent system.

http://www.cespri.it/papers/abs159.htm

(andreas_ffii at rudert-home dot de)

----

'''Robledo, Julio R., (2005) "Strategic patents and asymmetric litigation costs as entry deterrence instruments." Economics Bulletin Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 1-9'''

With patent cases such as Amazon vs. Barnes & Nobles ("Amazon one Click") in mind in this theoretical paper, Julio R. Robledo, economic professor at University of Vienna, shows how in a patent system with asymmetric litigation costs even patents of questionable quality deter others from entering a market.

If one applies the findings of this paper to asymmetries in the patent system in Germany ([http://www.inno-tec.de/download/veranstaltung/pitzpaper.pdf more than 65% of litigation cases are won by patentee] and SME's usually have higher legal costs and risks), this paper is even a stronger indicator on how the patent system puts SME's at a disadvantage and even questionable patents will be an effective means to preserve monopolies.

http://www.economicsbulletin.com/2005/volume15/EB-04O30005A.pdf

(andreas_ffii at rudert-home dot de)

----

'''Daniel Beimborn, Norman Hoppen "A Simulative Approach to Determining the Economic Efficiency of Software Patents", WIRTSCHAFTSINFORMATIK 46 (2004) 1, S. 50-60'''

Abstract: Traditionally, only technical inventions such as light bulbs or pharmaceuticals were protected by patents. Nowadays software patents are a widely discussed topic in the U.S. and in Europe because of their supposed impact on national innovation rates. Based on an analysis of the determinants of successful software development, we use a bipartite probability model to compare a deregulated market without patents to a market using a patent system. Applying computer-based simulations, we analyze different scenarios to test the impact of different patent duration and width on the innovation behavior of the software market. We show that strong patent protection is globally efficient only in markets with a relatively low profit potential.

http://www.wirtschaftsinformatik.de/wi_artikel.php?sid=1380 (only abstract available online)

(andreas_ffii at rudert-home de)
