= United States Mission to the EU demands EU software patenting =
----
''"Examine appropriate means to grant patent protection for inventions involving computer programmes", this was a demand of the United States Mission to the EU.''


 * [http://www.useu.be/TransAtlantic/TEP/tep119.html USEU: TRANSATLANTIC ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP: ACTION PLAN]

 At the London EU-US Summit of 18 May 1998, Summit leaders adopted a joint statement 
 on the Transatlantic Economic Partnership (TEP) identifying a series of elements
 for an initiative to intensify and extend multilateral and bilateral cooperation 
 and common actions in the field of trade and investment.

 ...
 TARGET DATE: END OF 1999

 3.4 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

 (ยง 10.e)
 Although the TRIPs Agreement already offers a strong basis for the protection of IPR, 
 further improvement of the protection available to rightholders  should be addressed 
 in EU-US bilateral relations. The issues to be addressed involve both short-term and long-term objectives:

 (1) As a matter of priority, negotiations and discussions should aim at reaching concrete results as regards:

 a. Examine all aspects of patent rights in order to identify and possibly
 adopt measures to reduce costs of obtaining patent protection. This should 
 also include sharing by patent offices of the results of patent searches and examinations.

 b. Resolve the voting right issue, allowing the U.S. to accede to the Madrid Protocol.

 c. Examine ways and possibly adopt measures to ensure that government agencies in the 
 EC and the U.S. make use only of authorised software. Subsequently, encourage third 
 countries to adopt similar measures.

 d. Work bilaterally on issues related to the two recent WIPO Treaties.

 e. Ensure, through co-operation in the appropriate fora, appropriate 
    protection of geographical indications and trademarks.

 (2) In addition, a series of mid to long-term objectives should be examined.
     No timeframe for the achievement of concrete results can therefore be specified at this stage. These are:

  a. Examine the consequences of the use of patents without authorisation
     of the right holder, including government use, and working requirements.
     Where there are concrete problems, identify possible solutions.

  b. '''Examine appropriate means to grant patent protection for inventions involving computer programmes'''.

  c. Examine ways to ensure appropriate protection of confidential data 
     submitted by pharmaceutical companies to support approval of new 
     products. Address the issue also at multilateral level.

  d. Examine the consequences of the EC's requirement to use a single
    trademark throughout the EC as a prerequisite for registration and 
    marketing approval of pharmaceutical products. Where concrete problems 
    arise in relation to co-marketing and co-licensing of products, identify 
    possible solutions.

  e. Examine the consequences of the EC's regime on the exhaustion of 
    pharmaceutical patent rights and whether they are adequately taken
    into account in the EC's and national policies. Where there are concrete
    problems, identify possible solutions.

  f. Examine appropriate design protection in the field of textile and clothing.

  g. Examine ways to ensure appropriate protection of databases.

  h. Explore the issues raised by the possible introduction and varying 
    treatment of artists' resale rights in the EC and the U.S.

  i. Explore possibilities of enhancing the enforcement of intellectual 
    property rights, including related costs.

  k. Examine how best to support efforts aimed at reaching mutual use 
    of patent search results between EPO and USPTO.
