= 2004-06-17 EU EDRI analysis of EU election results =
--> 
[ [:SwpatcninoEn: News]
| [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/ EDRI newsletter]
| [http://www.edri.org/ EDRI]
| [:ElectResu0406En: Election Results]
]
----

From the EDRI newsletter

One of the results of the European elections is the loss of some excellent
Members of Parliament. EDRI wishes to thank a number of !MEPs that have
struggled hard to defend privacy and digital civil rights, but have not
been re-elected.

As rapporteur of the Directive on privacy and electronic communications,
the Italian MEP Marco Cappato worked very hard to insert important
privacy-guarantees and fiercely opposed mandatory retention of
telecommunications traffic data. Author of the report on the right to
privacy and data protection (approved by Parliament on 9 March 2004 by 439
votes in favour, 39 against and 28 abstentions), organiser of an important
civil society meeting in Parliament, staunch protester against the
transfer of PNR-data to the US without strong privacy-protection, and
tabler of many key amendments on the IPR Enforcement Directive at the
first reading, Cappato deserves a lot of credit as a champion for digital
rights. Mister Cappato's Lista Bonino lost almost three quarters of its
voters, compared to the 1999 EU Parliament elections, and will send only
two !MEPs to Brussels. Mr. Cappato held place three on this list and may
come back to Brussels as a substitute MEP if one of the two others should
be replaced.

MEP Johanna Boogerd-Quaak from the small Dutch democratic-liberal party
unfortunately also lost her seat, making it impossible for her to see the
end of the court-case she instigated against the European Commission about
the PNR-transfer to the US. Boogerd-Quaak was vice-chairman of the
parliamentary citizen's rights committee (LIBE) and initiated an important
report on freedom of the media (adopted on 22 April 2004, by 237 votes in
favour to 24 against, 14 abstentions and mass blocking of the vote by
centre right MEPs). Furthermore, she strongly opposed the proposals from
the Commission for unlimited software patents.

The Liberal Group will also be missing her fellow Dutch MEP, Elly
Plooij-Van Gorsel. She was one of the Parliament's most high-profile MEPs
when it came to defending the internet as a place of free expression. She
opposed the data retention provision in the privacy in telecommunication
directive and joined EDRI in a press conference in May 2002 against the
proposal. As vice-chairman of the EU parliament Echelon committee, Plooij
has taken a pro-encryption stand. Plooij finally, was rapporteur on the EU
software patents directive and proposed various amendments that softened
the directive. Mrs. Plooij -van Gorsel did not run any more.

The German MEP Ilka Schroeder, who separated from the Greens in 2001 to
become an independent MEP, also participated actively in the parliamentary
committees on Echelon and citizen's rights. Like the previously mentioned
!MEPs she opposed mandatory data retention (she was the rapporteur for the
2002 privacy directive in the Industry committee) and software patents,
and warned against initiatives to turn Europe into a cyber-police state.

EDRI also wishes to thank the French MEP Alima Boumedienne-Thiery from the
French Greens, who has given the European Parliament a number of
outstanding reports on human rights issues. Boumedienne-Thiery was the
rapporteur of the 2003 annual report on fundamental rights in the EU,
presented to the EP in Strasbourg on April 2004. The report was rejected
by a very small majority: 184 vs. 177 !MEPs that supported the report.

Finally, Olga Zrihen, of the French-speaking Belgian Social Democrats will
also have to clear her office in the European Parliament. Mrs. Zrihen, who
has been a Member of the Parliament for only three years, was lately very
engaged in the fight against software patents.

Provisional results European elections
http://www.elections2004.eu.int/ep-election/sites/en/results1306/graphical.html

(Thanks to Andreas Dietl, EDRI EU affairs director)

== Comments ==

=== Hartmut Pilch (ffii) ===

FFII is equally sad that the named !MEPs are not coming back.  The loss of [:OlgaZrihenEn: Olga Zrihen], [:JohannaBoogerdEn: Johanna Boogerd] and [:MarcoCappatoEn: Marco Cappato] are particularly painful, because these !MEPs had accumulated a rare competence and committment on information infrastructure issues, and with some more effort we could perhaps have informed voters sufficiently to secure their reelections.  The same is true of [:BentHindrupAndersenEn: Bent Hindrup Andersen] whom EDRI forgets to mention.  In some cases we still may have chances to make up for the failure in the future.  Fortunately there are also counter-examples, such as [:PiiaNooraKauppiEn: Piia-Noora Kauppi], who managed to come back as the most popular politician within the finnish conservative party and with strengthened legitimacy for her continued commitment to the causes of a free information infrastructure.  Although most of the IPR lobby !MEPs came back on the tickets of their big parties, they all suffered severe losses in popularity and had a close call.  The elections did seem to show that at least to some degree voters notice and are willing to honor the commitment of those !MEPs who serve the public's interest.  Thanks to improved transparency and better quality of political communication on the Internet, this trend will hopefully continue in the future, and FFII must prepare to contribute to this trend even more strongly in 2009.
