#acl TrustedGroup:read All:

== Appendix C: Third party juridical and economical analyse of the Council text ==

In summary, the Council's position can be described as the most extreme position seen until now for unlimited software patentability. It takes on board the original Commission proposal, but additionally introduces patent claims directed to computer programs on their own, and redefines "computer program as such" to mean something which no one would ever even want a patent on.

Since the Council and Commission texts are so similar, virtually all criticisms voiced about the former hold for the latter as well.

== 1) Maria Alessandra Rossi: Software Patents: a closer look at the European Commission's proposal ==

This paper is part of the proceedings of the European Policy on Intellectual Property conference on 10 March 2005 in Copenhagen, Denmark. It was written by a researcher at the Doctoral School of Law and Economics, University of Siena, Italy. The full paper can be downloaded from http://www.epip.ruc.dk/Papers/ROSSI_Paper.pdf

The author's conclusions can be summarised in five important points:

a) The Commission's proposal would not decrease legal uncertainty in any way. The reason is that it is built upon the jurisprudence of the European Patent Office. This practice relies on undefined terms such as "technical character", "technical contribution" and "technical effect".

b) On the contrary, the European Parliament in its first reading "undoubtely made some steps in the direction of improving clarity in the definition of patentable subject matter in the field of computer-implemented inventions".

c) The only consistent interpretation of the Commission proposal corresponds to an express insertion of the patentability of computer programs. I.e., it goes even further than simply deleting the exclusion of patentability of computer programs from the law.

d) The Commission is significantly changing the status quo by extending the patent system to cover computer programs.

e) The Commission does not provide any economic evidence to justify its changes to the status quo. On the other hand, many empirical economic studies provide reasons for concerns about this move.


== 2) Sandra R. Paulsson: Patenting Software vs Free Software ==

This study was ordered by the European Parliament's DG on Economic and Social Policy. The author is a jurist who graduated at Lund University of Law, Sweden, who also holds a Master of Law of Suffolk University Law School, Boston, USA. The full paper can be downloaded from http://www.ffii.org/~jmaebe/paulsson.pdf

This author's conclusions are as follows:

a) The Council and Commission texts are semantically very similar.

b) The Commission proposal would codify the European Patent Office's practice, which is quite similar to the US Patent Office practice.

c) There is no problem with patenting business methods at the European Patent Office or under the Commission proposal

d) SMEs will not be magically helped by the patent system by merely informing them better. The objections they have to the patent system are very well founded, and not based on imaginary fears.
