= Introduction =

On 7 April 2004, I (Jonas Maebe) requested access to the Council documents 8253/04 + ADD1. These contained the at that time latest proposal for the software patent directive from the Council Working Party on Intellectual Property (Patents). On 23 April, I received a reply stating that the Council did not want to divulge this document, but that I could appeal. At http://www.elis.ugent.be/~jmaebe/swpat/council20040423.html, you can find both their initial reply and my so-called "confirmatory application" to appeal to this decision.

Normally, they had 15 working days to reply to this appeal, which meant that at the latest, they had to reply at either 15 or 17 May (depending on whether or not you counted 23 April as part of those 15 days). On 14 May, I received this message from the Council Secretariat:

  Considering the timetable for meetings of the various Council bodies involved in the examination
  of your application, a decision by the Council cannot be taken before 25 May 2004.

  The time limit for the Council to reply to your application has therefore to be extended in
  accordance with Article 8(2) of the Regulation.

= Council reply to appeal =

On 24 May 2004, the Council was finally ready discussing the matter and sent me a postal letter containing both their reply and the concerned documents. Below, you can find their reply. They also noted that, if I want, I can now "institute proceedings against the Council before the Court of First Instance of the European Communities and/or make a complain to the Ombudsman" (pursuant to article 8(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001; they refer to articles 195 and 230 of the EC Treaty for respectively conditions for referral to the Ombudsman and review of the legality of Council acts).

However, they did not address any of the raised points. They simply note that all they are/were interested in was reaching a consensus as soon as possible, instead of actually trying to solve the problems I tried to bring to their attention.


= Text of the Council reply =

  The Council has carefully considered this confirmatory application 
  under Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 (OJ LL 145 of 31.5.2001, p. 43) and 
  Annex II to the Council's Rules of Procedure (Council Decision 
  2004/338/EC, Euratom - OJ L 106 of 15.4.2004, p.38) and has come to the 
  following conclusion:
  
  1) The applicant refers to documents 8253/04 + ADD 1, which contain a 
    Presidency report and its addendum to the Permanent Representatives 
    Committee on a Commission proposal for a Directive of the European 
    Parliament and of the Council concerning the Patentability of 
    computer-implemented inventions.
  
  2) In its reply to the applicant dated 22 April 2004, the General 
    Secretariat refused to release the above-mentioned documents in their 
    entirety on the grounds of Article 4(3) of Regulation No 1049/2001 
    (protection of the Institution's decision-making proces)
  
  3) The Council has thoroughly examined these documents in the light of 
    the applicant's arguments and carried out new internal consultations 
    within its General Secretariat to ascertain the current state of play 
    on this matter.
  
  4) The above-mentioned proposal (COM (202) 92) was presented by the 
    Commission in February 2002. The Council reached broad agreement on a 
    common approach in November 2002 (see the draft minutes of the 2462nd 
    meeting of the "Competitiveness" session, doc. 14288/02, accessible by 
    the public from the Council's Register of documents on Internet). 
    Following the European Parliament's opinion in first reading on 24 
    September 2003 (doc. 11503/03, accessible from the Council's Register), 
    the Working Party on Intellectual Property (Patents) met several times 
    to examine the articles of the proposal in the light of the European 
    Parliament's amendments.
  
  5) The applicant claims that there is a clear overriding public 
    interest in granting access to documents regarding this particular 
    issue. He also criticises the Council's attitude by contrasting it with 
    the behaviour of other EU and non-EU institutions or bodies.
  
  6) The Council cannot agree with the applicant's view. It considers, on 
    the contrary, that negotiations on this issue have attained a stage at 
    which the efficiency of the Council's proceedings could be seriously 
    undermined by full release of the documents in question. 
    Notwithstanding the efforts made by the Presidency and the Council's 
    preparatory bodies on this matter, no decision has yet been taken on 
    the common position [[strange, |since the letter is dated 24th May]]. The 
    Council concludes, therefore, that the protection of the Council's 
    decision-making process outweighs the applicant's interest in the 
    above-mentioned documents, to which full access must be refused on the 
    basis of Article 4(3) of the Regulation.
  
  7) However, the Council re-examined whether partial access could be 
    granted to these documents pursuant to Article 4(6) of the Regulation. 
    In this context, it noted that,
  
    a. following discussions in Coreper, a qualified majority exists in 
      support of a text for the Council's common position. The issue will be 
      dealt with in one of the next Council sessions as a "B" point. However, 
      it is not certain that the text will be adopted soon;
  
     b. when the General Secretariat examined the applicant's initial 
      request, negotiations were at such a sensitive state that disclosure 
      was likely to impede rather than help the Council's decision making 
      procedure. The situation appears to have evolved.
  
  8) The applicant may, therefore, have now access to the content of the 
    documents, ...
  
