= Candidacy of Oliver Lorenz as board member of FFII =
->
[ [[FfiiKonv0511En| Assembly]]
| [[FfiiKonvAgenda0511En| Agenda]]
]
----

Person: 
After studying law in Germany and France with an emphasis on copyright and
competition, I have worked in the legal department of a software house in
Berlin, Germany for five years. I currently prepare a doctoral thesis in the
field of competition law in the IT sector, for and with the help of EMCITA,
which I intend to shape into an instrument for competition competence in the
future.

Objective and commitment: 
I see a great potential to make the FFII-program of ideas and principles more
commonly understood and more widely supported. Many people - in addition to
programmers and SMEs - would support our ideas on data literacy, access to
knowledge and fair competition if they knew of them. The FFII program should
therefore be presented increasingly in its societal context. I refer expressly
to civil society, where with the help of politics and media, important
potential endorsement  can be gained.
Popularizing the FFII-program by explaining the public interest of our work to
people outside our community is fundamental to increasing our political
influence. Accentuating failures and fallacies in the legal and economic
framework through exact analysis and comprehensible communication will best
familiarise people with the issues of civil rights in the information society
and ultimately provide the support of our work for the important work ahead. I
will emphasize rendering more visible the necessary link between our ideas and
the public interest in improving the rules in our society through increased
permanent press work, including the actual working with journalists, and all
other form of communication to build a more and better understanding of our
objectives at all levels of society. 
My work experience, including with corporate conceptions of benevolent work,
should be helpful in extending the material base for the organisation' work. I 
recognise the need for a secure basis of funding in order to preserve our
organisation's integrity and will therefore take responsibility to assure that
FFII will not become dependent on any fundraising that could compromise its
program.

Position in the current discussion on the FFII’s organisation:
I look forward to working in a board headed by Hartmut in resolving any of the
issues recently raised in the discussion about the presidency. Having
cooperated with Hartmut in resolving the N***werk proceedings - which may have
been insufficiently communicated to the board, and certainly were
underestimated by some in their complexity - I must stress that his personal
organisation and position-taking was exemplary in preserving FFII's interest. I
am convinced at the same time that it requires a man of his capacities to keep
FFII on the right way into the future.
I also trust his presidency to further positive change to organisational
shortcomings. Personally, I believe that a person shouldering some of the
president’s office work and assuring more frequent reporting to the board would
bring about the desired improvements. 
That some have apparently not considered this approach of problem-solving,
however, demands to comment on dissenting motivations. I strongly advice
against turning FFII into a typical Brussels lobby group. More than the ensuing
conflicts of interest and potential loss of respectability, the organisation
would loose its core appeal for the network of activists, supporters and donors
(I cannot speak for the inner circle of the board) - the reputation on which
the organisation has built its success. The academic acclaim of FFII analysis
and our knowledge-based leadership, fundamental for our work and
respectability, must be preserved if the FFII is. In this respect, I am unable
to see how FFII could successfully pursue its path if Hartmut Pilch would not
lead as president. 

 *  Heise quote with a campaign statement in favor of [[FfiiKonvPhm0511En| Hartmut as president]]

You can contact Oliver at oliver at ffii org or lorenz at emcita com.
