= EICTA asks MEPs to support unlimited patentability =
--> [:SwpatcninoEn: News], [:SwpateictaEn: EICTA], [:LeoBaumannEn: Baumann]
----

On 9 June, [:LeoBaumannEn: Leo Baumann] of [:SwpateictaEn: EICTA] sent a mail to all members of the European Parliament, repeating its usual positions and asking MEPs to blindly swallow the Council's counter-proposal of the software patents directive. 

Note that more than half of EICTA's members are non-European companies, so their introductory paragraph is at least misleading. 

More information about EICTA can be found [http://swpat.ffii.org/players/eicta/ here].

== Text of the email ==

  From: "Baumann Leo (LBN)" <xxx at eicta.org>
  Date: 9 June 2004
  To: "Baumann Leo (LBN)" <xxx at eicta.org>
  Subject: EP Elections 2004
  
  
  Dear candidate to the European elections,
  
  We are writing to you on behalf of EICTA, the industry body that
  represents the Information and Communications Technology and Consumer
  Electronics Industry in Europe.  EICTA is composed of 48 major
  multinational companies and 32 national associations from 24 European
  countries. In all, EICTA represents more than 10,000 companies all over
  Europe with more than 2 million employees and EUR 200 billion in
  revenues.
  
  As Europe's citizens approach the forthcoming elections for the European
  Parliament, they expect Parliament to play its role in a European Union
  dedicated to improving the quality of life and accelerating economic
  growth and social cohesion for 450 million Europeans.  These objectives
  can not be met without embracing the digital technologies developed and
  brought to market by EICTA's members including mobile telephones,
  computers, software and consumer electronics devices.   These
  technologies make possible efficient communication, production and
  distribution structures, new e-government services which bring citizens
  closer to public administrations, remote tele-working opportunities and
  flexible work options, new possibilities for life long learning through
  e-learning and broadband communications).
  
  In order to take best advantage of the solutions our sectors are able to
  offer, the right framework in Europe needs to be developed in order to
  stimulate investment in information and communications technologies
  (ICT) and consumer electronic products.  We must encourage companies to
  invest in research and development in Europe and to be able to produce
  and sell at competitive prices and avoid measures which unnecessarily
  increase the prices for digital equipment depriving Europeans of
  affordable equipment and services available elsewhere in the world.
  
  The European Parliament will deal with issues crucial to the development
  of our industry during its next term. Just to mention a few:
  
  - a decision in second reading will be taken on a new framework
  directive, laying down eco-design and energy-efficiency requirements for
  energy using products ("EuP"); it is very important to obtain a
  harmonized European approach that leaves room for voluntary industry
  measures (preferred drive for gaining environmental improvements in
  eco-design) and does not impose too much administrative burden to
  industry and increase prices for consumers;
  
  - the Commission's proposal for registration, evaluation, and
  authorization of chemical substances (REACH) will be discussed in the
  European Parliament in Autumn; issues at stake here: striking the right
  balance between Chemical producers and Downstream users and, in general,
  improving the overall workability of the REACH system;
  
  - the European Parliament will deal with the directive on the
  Patentability of Computer-implemented inventions (CIIs) in second
  reading. It is crucial for companies of all sizes, research institutions
  and individual inventors that adequate patent protection is provided for
  their inventions. We recommend supporting the Council common position
  without imposing further restrictions to the scope of patentability and
  undermining the climate for innovation in Europe.
  
  We hope that we will be able to count on your support and engagement in
  order to find the right solutions to these issues.
  
  Wishing you every success in your election, and looking forward to
  welcoming you to Brussels.
  
    EICTA
  
  www.eicta.org
