= CEO of automotive technology SME grills Scania over software patents =

->
[ [[FredrikEgreliusEn| Scania/Egrelius]]
| [[Eei0506En|  EEI event]]
| [[SwpatcninoEn|  News]]
]
----

''15 June 2005 - Early May, the European Enterprise Institute published an opinion paper written by a lawyer of Scania, arguing why software patents are so important for the automotive industry. Thomas Wuensche, CEO of an automation and automotive technology, wrote a letter to the author of this article asking him to explain his position and how the requirement of using controllable forces of nature could exclude automotive inventions. He did not get an answer.''

The Scania paper recently got attention again due to [[Eei0506En| a patent lobby event]] which the EEI is organising end June. Thomas Wuensche, CEO of an [[http://www.ems-wuensche.com/|automotive technology SME]] and a supporter of the [[http://www.economic-majority.com/testimony/wuensche/index.en.php|Economic Majority against software patents]] initiative, wrote a letter to Scania about it a while ago, but never received a reply.


== Letter to Scania ==

Dear Mr. Egrelius,

I have read your opinion paper and have a few questions
on it. I am owner and CEO of an automation and automotive
technology company and in this function have strong sympathies for the results of the parliaments first reading.
However I'm in fear that the Council's version would
introduce severe risks for us, but also for companies
like Scania.

Given that background, I would be interested to discuss
the issue with you and would be glad if you'd find the
time to do so.

First of all I'm with you with the conviction that engine
control systems that result in enhanced effectivity and
reduced fuel comsumption should as well be patentable as
road safety systems that stabilise vehicles. The position
of FFII also does not question that. However all those
systems would be related to changes in the use of the
forces of nature. The patentable invention in this case
is how forces of nature are used. Software of course
needs to be applicable in this case without harming patentability. However since the invention is in the use of
the forces of nature, it would be sufficient to protect
that, I don't expect that claims on the data processing
algorithm are required. If you think that would not be
patentable according to the parliaments first reading
results or the amendment proposals made by FFII, could
you please outline why you think so? If there is a new
way to use forces of nature in an invention and the significant investments to achieve that could not be protected by patents according to these proposals, this
surely needs to be discussed.

As far as the problems of the patent system are concerned,
I have learned during my time as CEO of my company, that
it's better to fix problems before you decide to depend on
something that has problems with further tasks. The patent
system needs to fix issues regarding the height of the
inventive step and finding prior art. It's not the task
of companies blocked by falsely granted patents to care
about that. Do you think there are ways to improve that?
If so, how could it be done?

One of the major problems to me seems the misleading name
of the directive. The inventions you describe could all
be called "Computer Aided Inventions", making clear that
there is an invention (wrt forces of nature) that get's
help from a computer. However "Computer Implemented" holds
true only for something that can be implemented in a computer as a whole, and that is data processing only. Data
processing is considered the main function of software
by most persons outside the patent system (the EPO practice and examination guidelines draw a line between software and the data processing performed by it that is hardly understood by developers and does have no meaning besides making data processing patentable). Would you think
the requirements of your company would be fulfilled if
the directive allows "Computer Aided Inventions", but
denies patents to pure data processing?

As far as the nickname of the directive is concerned:
Have you read the examination guidelines of the EPO?
Are you aware that they permit patents on business methods,
as long as technical thoughts have been required while
the invention is made? That in this case neither the
problem nor the solution needs to be technical? Are you
aware that the alternative requirement for technicity,
the "additional technical effect", is declared not to be
checked during patent examination? I can give sources to
that information in case you don't have them. So why do
you think the directive was not about software (in the
sense most developers understand it, that means including
the data processing coded in the software)?

Regarding the question whether the existing practice of
the EPO has served European inventors: I don't think so.
What has served European inventors is the fact that many
courts have not followed the EPO practice. I'm sure this
has also saved your company many millions in patent litigation costs. It's true that the Council's position confirms the EPO practice of granting patents to something
that is considered pure software by most persons outside
the patent system. The Council's position uses many of
the phrases that can be found in the EPO examination
guidelines and that's what makes it so dangerous to the
innovative capabilities of Europe. Why do you think EPO
practice has served us well, while I find that our apprentices regularly violate patents while coding pure software?

I'm looking forward to discussion of the matter with you.
European high-tech industry sure needs a well thought
directive on computer aided inventions.

Best Regards,

Dr.-Ing. Thomas Wuensche
