= Letter from the Dutch Parliament to Commissioner Fratini on lack of legal basis for the criminal sanctions directive =

----

''Abstract here''

----


== Letter ==

  
  |To Mr F. Frattini                          |                          |
  |Vice-President of the European Commission  |                          |
  |Commissioner for Justice, Freedom and      |                          |
  |Security                                   |                          |
  |European Commission                        |                          |
  |B-1049 BRUSSELS                            |                          |
  |                                           |The Hague, 3 July 2006    |
  |135275.03                                  |                          |
  
  Dear Mr Frattini,
  
  In accordance with the procedure adopted by them, both Houses of the States-
  General of the Kingdom of the Netherlands have checked the amended proposal
  of the European Commission for a directive on criminal measures aimed at
  ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights (COM(2006)168
  final) by reference to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
  In doing so they have applied Article 5 of the EC Treaty and Protocol 30 to
  the Treaty of Amsterdam on the application of the principles of
  subsidiarity and proportionality. In addition, both Houses have thus also
  implemented the conclusions of XXXIV COSAC (London, 10-11 October 2005)
  regarding the implementation of the subsidiarity test by the national
  parliaments.
  
  On the basis of the considerations set out in this letter, both Houses have
  concluded that the proposal in question does not comply with the principles
  of subsidiarity and proportionality. In particular, they consider that the
  present proposal falls outside the powers of the Community. Pursuant to
  conclusion 3.4 of XXXV COSAC (Vienna, 22-23 May 2006) both Houses would
  appreciate receiving a reasoned response from the European Commission to
  the objections formulated by them in this letter.
  
  Yours sincerely,
  
  [signed]                               [signed]

  Y.E.M.A. Timmerman-Buck                      F.W. Weisglas
  President of the Senate                      President of the House of Representatives
  
  Reasoning
  
  Introduction
  
  Piracy, counterfeiting and infringement of intellectual property rights
  cause very great damage to the economies of the European Union and can also
  have other serious consequences. The Netherlands too is confronted by these
  adverse consequences. The European Commission rightly points out that
  additional action is necessary to prevent and combat piracy, counterfeiting
  and infringement of intellectual property rights. However, the instrument
  proposed by the European Commission for use in the battle against piracy,
  namely an EC directive including a criminal law enforcement provision
  concerning the minimum level of the maximum sentence, encounters serious
  objections from both Houses of the States General. These are explained
  below.
  
  The power issue
  
  The European Commission considers the present amended draft directive to be
  necessary for the protection of the internal market and bases itself in
  this connection on Article 95 of the EC Treaty, which comes under the so-
  called First Pillar. The power to include a criminal sanction in the
  proposal is derived from the judgment of 13 September 2005 of the Court of
  Justice of the European Communities in Case C-176/03, which was, however,
  limited to criminal sanctions in the case of offences against European
  environmental policy. The proposal for a directive (in the First Pillar)
  now under consideration introduces for the first time a criminal law
  measure concerning the minimum level of the maximum penalty. EU Member
  States are to be obliged to introduce this by law.
  
  In the view of both Houses, the question of whether power is granted in the
  EC Treaty for the intended aim of the proposed action must be answered,
  strictly speaking, in the negative. Both Houses have serious doubts about
  the European Commission’s broad interpretation of the judgment, as set out
  inter alia in Communication COM(2005)583. Although the possibility cannot
  be excluded that, subject to the conditions specified in the judgment,
  criminal sanctions can be included in an instrument under the First Pillar,
  the broad applicability of the judgment has not yet been conclusively
  established. More clarity about this may emerge later this year when the
  Court of Justice gives judgment in a comparable case concerning measures to
  combat pollution by shipping[1]. Both Houses of Parliament also refer in
  this connection to the fact that the EU Treaty provides for a ‘passerelle’
  (bridge) provision (Article 42), under which the Council may decide
  unanimously to transfer certain parts from the Third Pillar (under which
  cooperation in criminal matters is classified) to the First Pillar.
  
  The subsidiarity issue
  
  As the Court of Justice has indicated, criminal law does not in principle
  belong to the competence of the Community, although its use by the
  Community cannot be entirely excluded. However a number of strict criteria
  must then be fulfilled. The use of ‘effective, proportionate and
  dissuasive’ penalties by the competent national authorities must be an
  ‘essential measure’ in the battle against acts that seriously undermine the
  policy field to be protected, in order to be able to take measures which
  are connected with the criminal law of the Member States and which the
  Community considers necessary in order to ensure the complete effectiveness
  of the standards to be set by it in this field.
  
  The legal considerations of the Court of Justice in this matter can be read
  in such a way that the stipulations applied in them constitute cumulative
  requirements that must be fulfilled. Both Houses are of the opinion that
  this requirement has not been fulfilled in this case for the following
  reasons:
  
  - In many countries investigation and enforcement of intellectual property
  rights does not have a high priority, and there is also little specialised
  knowledge available for investigation and enforcement. Against this
  background it has not been established that effective measures to combat
  piracy necessitate expansion of the existing range of measures and
  sanctions under procedural law. The establishment of priorities and the
  transfer of knowledge are possibly of greater importance.
  
  - The Commission does not submit that in the event of a major difference in
  penalties pirates or counterfeiters could operate from the country with the
  lowest maximum sentences and that this would seriously hinder effective
  protection of intellectual property. As it does not submit this there is no
  factual justification for its position.
  
  - It should also be noted that an offence committed in a Member State with
  ‘low’ penalties may quickly create a power of criminal prosecution in other
  Member States, namely where the counterfeit goods end up in normal
  circulation in the other Member State. In such circumstances, an offender
  in the Member State with low penalties is very likely to be prosecuted as
  instigator, accomplice or co-perpetrator in a Member State with higher
  penalties.
  
  - It should also be noted that implementation of Directive 2004/48/EC[2] on
  measures and procedures to ensure the enforcement of intellectual property
  rights is currently being considered by the House of Representatives of the
  States-General, in which connection provision is made for the inclusion of
  separate procedural provisions for intellectual property cases in the Code
  of Civil Procedure. Above all, the broader powers to make orders for the
  costs of proceedings in that proposal can operate as a kind of punitive
  damages[3], and can thus be regarded as sanctions.
  
  In view of the above, the two Houses take the view that violations of
  intellectual property rights cannot be treated as such a serious violation
  of the policy field to be protected that the harmonised deployment of
  criminal law measures must be considered essential in the battle against
  these violations.
  
  Inclusion of minimum maximum penalties
  
  The fact that the European Commission also includes minimum maximum
  penalties in the amended proposal for a directive on criminal measures
  aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights
  (COM(2006)168 final) must also be regarded as not expedient, if for no
  other reason than on the basis of the above considerations.
  
  It would have been preferable if the European Commission had confined
  herself to drafting a provision that the legal remedy should be ‘effective,
  proportional and dissuasive’, leaving the final decision as to the exact
  nature of the remedy to the Member States.
  
  Conclusion
  
  
  Both Houses of the States-General conclude that no power has been granted
  to the Community in respect of the aim of the proposed action. Nonetheless,
  both Houses have – for the record – scrutinised the present proposal by
  reference to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and
  concluded that the proposal does not comply with them.
  
  
  -----------------------
  [1] Case C-440/05
  [2] Kamerstukken II 2005-2006, 30392
  [3] D.J.G. Visser, NJB 3 March 2006, no. 9, p. 538
  -----------------------
  [pic]

== Source ==

 * http://europapoort.eerstekamer.nl/9310000/1/j9tvgajcovz8izf_j9vvgbwoimqf9iv/vg7slw5im1tl?key=vhc0fvdga1qw
