The EICTA press release can be found via
the
[http://www.eicta.org/Content/Default.asp?PageID=207 EICTA front page]

Please look for press releases 2003.

This press release uses wordings from a 
[:Telcos031107En: letter signed by CEOs of large telecommunication and consumer electronics companies].

We have already written a static page which rejects most
this FUD, but EICTA has added further rhetorical elements
to it.  

Feel free to insert some comments in between which we may
use for the static version of this EICTA PR.

  Industry Calls on Council to Correct Damage Done by the European
  Parliament -- European R&D Will Be Jeopardised If CII Patents Are
  Eliminated 

  Brussels, 26 November 2003 - The Council will react under Irish
  Presidency to the vote of the European Parliament on the proposed
  directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions
  (CII) in September 2003. The Competitiveness Council has taken the
  last minute decision not to pronounce itself on the proposal under
  Italian Presidency today and tomorrow. Given the negative effect which
  the Parliament's recommendations would have on European research and
  development as well as competitiveness, industry calls on the Council
  to distance itself from the position the Parliament has assumed in the
  first reading of the directive proposal. 

  EICTA, the European Information, Communications and Consumer
  Electronics Technology Industry Association warned that the outcome of
  the vote in the European Parliament on 24 September would have
  devastating consequences for industry in Europe. Andy Mattes, EICTA
  President and Member of the Siemens Group Board of Information and
  Communication Networks confirms that "the European Parliament's
  version of the directive would diminish virtually to vanishing point
  the effective patent protection now available to Europe's
  world-leading telecommunications industry". It would according to him
  also have equally disastrous consequences for other EICTA members in
  sectors such as the computer and software industries and consumer
  electronics.  

  AGORIA, the multisector federation for the technology industry in
  Belgium, confirms that especially for a country like Belgium with many
  small and medium size companies and very dependent on export, this
  outcome will be really harmful. Christian Vanhuffel, Vice-President of
  EICTA and General Manager of AGORIA states that many of Agoria's
  members active in the automotive, transport, domestic appliances,
  medical instruments and machine tools sectors are increasingly reliant
  on software-related innovation. He says: "they, too, would suffer if
  Parliament's amendments were adopted."

  The Directive as originally proposed by the Commission was intended to
  maintain the status quo in Europe based on current best practice which
  has rewarded inventors with over 30,000 CII patents while permitting
  the growth of a flourishing open source software movement in Europe.
  SMEs, research institutions and large enterprises all utilize the
  patent system to protect their continuing innovation.  Parliament's
  amendments would completely undo the delicate balance intended in the
  Commission's original proposal, and developed both in the "General
  Approach" endorsed by the Council in November 2002, and in the report
  of the European Parliament's Legal Affairs Committee.

  Parliament's amendments further suggest that Europe is ready to
  disregard its international obligations under the TRIPS Agreement.
  Moreover, they would change the legal climate in Europe suddenly and
  dramatically. This would send an immediate message to the rest of the
  world that the legal framework necessary for attaining a viable
  European Information Society has become unstable and unpredictable.

  EICTA calls on the forthcoming Irish Council Presidency to continue
  work on a common position based on the consensus approach arrived at
  under the Danish Presidency in November 2002 and largely reflected in
  the work of the European Parliament's Legal Affairs Committee. AGORIA
  counts on the support of the Belgian Minister of Economic Affairs. If
  the damaging amendments proposed by Parliament are not corrected in
  Council, the preferred option would be withdrawal of the proposal by
  the Commission. This would leave Europe with its status quo on patent
  protection, without harmonization - not an ideal situation, but
  certainly preferable to the dramatic reduction of patent protection
  entailed by the European Parliament's current position.



  EICTA was founded in 1999 and merged with EACEM, the European Consumer
  Electronics Manufacturers Association, in 2001. It now combines 45
  major multinational companies as direct members and 31 national
  associations from 21 European countries. EICTA altogether represents
  more than 10.000 companies all over Europe with more than 1.5 million
  employees and revenues of over 190 billion Euro.

  AGORIA is a multisector federation representing companies active in 9
  branches of industry: metals & materials, metal products, plastics,
  mechanical & mechatronical engineering, electrical engineering &
  electronics, ICT, automotive, aerospace and defence & security.
  Together, these sectors constitute the technological industry, and the
  federation provides collective and individual services for 1,300
  member companies on a daily basis. Agoria's main mission is to improve
  the socio-economic environment in which these companies are active. 


  For further information, 
  EICTA: Leo Baumann +32-2-706 84 77   leo.baumann@eicta.org
  AGORIA: Filip Geerts +32-0475 62 06 62  filip.geerts@agoria.be

Leo Baumann was until recently the assistant of 
[:SwpatanieblerDe: Angelika Niebler]
colleague of [:SwpatjwuermelingDe: Dr. Joachim Wuermeling] in charge
of much of the policy formulation in the EPP (conservative block in
Europarl).

See also our [:SwpateictaEn: EICTA documentation page] which also
links to an ael wiki page that debunks some of the membership claims
of EICTA and Agoria.

Most importantly, in big industry associations such as EICTA, patent matters
are traditionally decided by special patent commissions in which only patent
lawyers from large corporations participate.  The details of the decision
process in one of EICTA's member organisations, [:SwpatbitkomEn: BITKOM]
have been documented.

The argumentation of these papers usually relies on no evidence, no reasoning,
only false representation claims.  Apart from masquerading as "the industry",
the patent lawyers who write these statements have no ideas to rely on.
