I, Luca Saiu (saiu AT cli DOT di DOT unipi DOT SPAM SOMEONLE ELSE it)
organized a little campaign at the University of Pisa, where I study,
giving away flyiers and spreading information. I convinced many fellow
students to sign letters to the Minister Marzano and Italian MEPs and
MPs chosen by the signers themselves. I personally printed and sent
letters, to be definitely sure they actually left.

You can find the material we sent (in Italian) at
http://www.cli.di.unipi.it/~saiu/brevetti.html .

My small initiative started at the end of September 2004, and is still
in course.

As of 10 October 2004 we sent about 120 letters, but by now we received just
one answer from On. Raffaella Mariani (now we're going to start phoning).
On. Mariani was extremely friendly, and from her response I can easily deduce that
she also got informed by herself (we pointer her to
http://swpat.ffii.org ), and she didn't just read what we said.

On. Mariani sent a formal "Interrogazione con risposta urgente in
commissione" to the Minister of Communitary Politics, to the Minister
of Innovation and Technology and to the Minister of Cultural Goods.

The interrogation is well written and reflects our concerns. Its text is available at http://www.cli.di.unipi.it/~saiu/interrogazione-mariani.pdf .
The interrogation was also signed by On. Piero Ruzzante, On. Beatrice Magnolfi and
On. Walter Tocci.



Here follows a (rough) translation of the Interrogation from Italian into English.


----
Interrogation to the Minister of Communitary Politics,
to the Minister of Innovation and Technologies,
to the Minister of Cultural Goods


to know, with the premise that:

- a draft of directive dictating unlimited patentability without
restrictions of algorithms and "computer-implemented" commercial
methods is about to be approved by the Union Member States;

- the european Council of ministers about Competitiveness held in
Bruxells on 17 and 18 May '''rejected without any justification the amendments''' which the European Parliament '''had approved''' to the
original directive on sofware patentability;

- the text approved by the Council of ministers is to be considered
even '''worse then the original draft''', because it potentially allows to
patent any computer program;

- such a legislation would be '''damaging to the european productive tissue''' bound to modern technologies, which is made up for the most
part by small and medium enterprises who use or produce software;

- a strong patent protection in this field is an advantage only for
who already registered a large number of patents and so can make
non-belligerancy agreements with other large enterprises, it
artificially creates "entrance barriers" to new enterprises and limits
the free competition in the field: -


which the Government position is about this matter, which initiatives
it wants to undertake to avoid the approvation of a directive
disastrous for innovation, competition and growth of an information
economy; and last if [:the :Government] doesn't think it's useful to
re-create a serious political scrutiny about the impact of the
proposed text.


On. Raffaella Mariani,
On. Piero Ruzzante,
On. Beatrice Magnolfi,
On. Walter Tocci
----
