## -*- dok: eicta0410; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -*-
= 2004-10-00 EU EICTA Letter to all JURI MEPs  =
-->
[ [:SwpateictaEn: EICTA]
| [:SwpatcninoEn: News]
]
----

--> Eicta0410En

== News, Chronology, Media Echo ==

 * 2004-10-28 [:SwpatukEn: UK] [http://www.techworld.com/applications/news/index.cfm?NewsID=2502 TechWorld: EU patent law battle kicks off again] (including sceptical remark about EICTA's opportunism)
 * 2004-10-27 [:SwpateuEn: EU] [http://www.itworld.com/Man/2687/041027eupatent/ ITWorld: IT firms call for patent protection in E.U.]

== The Letter ==

EICTA sent out the following letter to all members of the [:EuroparlJuriEn: Legal Affairs Committee] of the [:SwpateuroparlEn: European Parliament]:

  October 2004
  
  The European high tech industry strongly supports the draft directive
  on Computer-Implemented Inventions (CII) as proposed by the Council.
  
  In our digital era, computer-implemented, or software-enabled,
  inventions are at the heart of all digital technology and are a very
  significant force behind innovation in Europe in so many industry
  sectors, covering healthcare, telecommunications, mobile phones, cars,
  aviation and consumer electronics. These software-enabled inventions
  will continue to boost Research and Development (R&D) and secure
  employment in Europe, as long as they can adequately be protected by
  patents. This protection currently exists and the political agreement
  achieved by the Council in May 2004 on the CII directive1 continues to
  provide it.
  
  On the other hand, some of the amendments proposed by the European
  Parliament in first reading would eliminate most patents on
  software-enabled inventions. A directive along these lines would
  seriously threaten R&D in Europe. European and non-European companies
  alike would shy away from investing in innovation in Europe. Thousands
  of jobs in Europe would be at risk.
  
  The political agreement adopted by the Council in May 2004 will help
  the European Union to fulfil the Lisbon Agenda for Europe to become
  the leading knowledge-based economy and is the best way forward for
  Europe because:
  
  * It secures Europes position as a leading global innovator. Europe
  is a prominent player in software-enabled inventions in many areas
  such as healthcare, telecommunication, mobile phones, cars, aviation
  and consumer electronics. Europe needs patents to maintain and
  strengthen its leadership. The European industry currently spends over
  15 billion Euros a year on R&D and employs more than 100,000
  inventors. Patents provide protection for inventions and are an
  important source for funding R&D. Venture capitalists only invest in
  innovative SMEs if present and future inventions can be protected
  through patents. There is no valid reason to exclude technical
  inventions from patentability just because they use software.
  
  * It secures jobs. Elimination of the patentability of
  software-enabled inventions in Europe would severely damage European
  industry, because these inventions cover more than 2/3 of the existing
  patent portfolio. Europe would become a haven for plagiarism. European
  industry, stripped of patent protection in its home-market, would lose
  considerable market share to those who do not invest in R&D and simply
  copy. Licensing of patents on software-enabled inventions would become
  impossible in Europe. As a consequence, the viability of European
  industry would be seriously affected. Europe risks losing thousands of
  jobs including many highly skilled sustainable R&D jobs. This is
  contrary to what was stated at the Lisbon European Council, namely
  that 'innovation and ideas must be adequately rewarded within the
  knowledge-based economy, particularly through patent protection'.
  
  (18 May 2004).
  
  * It stimulates technology transfer and
  knowledge-sharing. Patents stimulate technology transfer and
  knowledge-sharing between companies and accelerate innovation, because
  patent applications have to be made public after 18 months. Knowledge
  sharing between cooperating companies can even take place much
  earlier. Companies often license these patents to others. Without
  patent protection, on the other hand, companies would not disclose
  their software-enabled inventions to other parties, keeping them
  secret as long as possible. As a result European industry would cease
  to cooperate in publicly funded inter-company R&D programmes,
  including EU and Eureka programmes. Such secretive practices coupled
  with a withering of research-cooperation would jeopardize innovation
  in Europe and adversely affect standardisation.
  
  * It prevents patents on pure software. To be patentable, an invention
  must make a technical contribution. Pure software lacks such a
  contribution and hence is excluded by the political agreement. On the
  other hand, a software-enabled invention does make a technical
  contribution, i.e. for a TV or mobile phone. In this case, the
  invention is not in software 'as such'; the invention just uses
  software for its implementation.
  
  * It does not allow for 'trivial' patents. Patents may only be granted
  for software-enabled inventions that are new, non-obvious and make a
  technical contribution.
  
  * It strengthens Europe's position in the global market. Severely
  weakened patent laws would isolate Europe from the rest of the world,
  and force global players to refocus their attention on other regions.
  This would alienate the European industry from the US and Asia
  Pacific. The political agreement, on the other hand, supports Europe's
  position in the global market.
  
  * It is compliant with the WTO Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of
  Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). According to TRIPS, patents must
  be granted for any invention in all fields of technology, provided
  that they are new, non-obvious and industrially applicable. TRIPS does
  not allow for discriminating as to the field of technology and does
  not allow the exclusion of softwareenabled inventions.
  
  * It allows for co-existence between software-enabled inventions and
  open source software. Open source software and patents for
  software-enabled inventions have co-existed for many years without
  problems. Open source software is also used increasingly in our
  industry. Companies must be able to choose on a case-by-case basis
  whether to use an open source solution or a proprietary solution, or
  the combination of both.
  
  * It confirms that copyright protection alone is not enough to protect
  inventions. Copyright protects only the actual software i.e. the
  program code, as written, and nothing more. A competitor can freely
  use the underlying concept without infringing copyright and it is
  usually quite easy to work around the copyright-protected specific
  program. On the other hand, patents protect the underlying technical
  function and concept, provided they meet the patentability
  requirements. Most effort and money goes into the technical function
  and concept, not the specific expression, of a software-enabled
  invention. 

  For all these reasons, we urge the new European Parliament
  to accept the draft directive as proposed by the Council. More info:

  http://www.patents4innovation.org 

   EICTA, founded in 1999 is the voice of the
  Information and Communications Technology and Consumer Electronics
  Industries in Europe. It is composed of 50 major multinational
  companies and 32 national industry associations from 24 European
  countries. In all, EICTA represents more than 10,000 companies all
  over Europe with more than 2 million employees and EUR 200 billion in
  revenues.
