= 2004-06-22 DE Deutsche Bank against Software Patents, asks DE Gov't to Alter its Course =
-->
[ [:SwpatcninoEn: News]
| [:Cons040518En: Council 2004-05-18]
]
----
 * http://www.dbresearch.com/PROD/DBR_INTERNET_EN-PROD/PROD0000000000175949.pdf

== Quotes ==

=== Page 1 ===

 Innovation in Germany

 Windows of Opportunity

 Germany's innovation system badly needs a boost. Output is still strong, but
 prospects are dim due to structural problems. Notorious weaknesses include
 slow structural change towards cutting-edge technologies, weak supply of risk
 capital, and declining contributions to innovation from SMEs.

 A long list of remedies is under discussion, and the government is slowly starting
 to tackle some of them in its current "Year of Technology". However, they all aim
 at catching up with other nations' higher standards. Catch-up is essential, but not
 enough. To gain a true competitive edge, Germany needs to take steps others
 have not taken, in domains where it is on an equal footing with competitors:

 ...

 * Set up a balanced IP protection regime to foster the creation and flow 
   of ideas.

   Stronger IP protection is not always better. Chances are that patents on
   software, common practice in the US and on the brink of being legalised 
   in Europe, in fact stifle innovation. Europe could still alter course.

=== Pages 6-7 ===

  Bearing this in mind, one could be tempted to consider ever stricter
  IP protection regimes to provide ever more stimuli for innovation.
  This conclusion is wrong, however. A prime example is patents on
  software, which might at first sight be seen as a logical expansion of
  the classic technology patent. But creating software differs markedly
  from creating machinery and the like: MIT researchers Bessen and
  Maskin argue that innovation in software is both strongly sequential
  (one invention building on a previous one) and complementary (thriving
  on parallel approaches to the same problem), far more so than in other
  technology fields. In fact, they found empirical evidence that
  software patenting substitutes R&D activity, rather than encouraging
  it, and conclude: "For industries like software or computer, there is
  actually good reason to believe that imitation becomes a spur to
  innovation, while strong patents become an impediment". In accordance
  with other academics, they strongly favour copyright over patent
  protection for software. Copyrighting provides both adequate leeway
  for sequential innovation and enough protection for marketable
  software products.  The cited studies analyse the US software market,
  where patentability has been introduced gradually since the early
  1980s, lowering patent granting standards and strengthening
  enforcement (see figure).  20 years later, the EU is following suit:
  the Council of the EU has introduced a controversially discussed
  pro-patent bill to the European Parliament, due to be enacted this
  summer. Thus, the rapidly closing window of opportunity for Germany
  and the EU in general is to alter course, keep the legacy copyright
  system for software, and thereby provide a better-balanced IP
  protection regime than software?s old bull: the US3.

  Measures to take. 

  The German government is among the tentative
  critics of the EU software patent bill. This position should be 
  bolstered, by (1) putting forward academic evidence and (2) making
  SMEs? concerns heard. SMEs are crucial providers of pathbreaking
  innovations, but would be most adversely affected by patentability.
  The majority of them is deterred by the costs of patenting themselves,
  but would have to navigate around software patent portfolios
  of large corporations.
