= 2004-07-08 PT PCP Motion against Council's "Political Agreement" on Software Patents   =
-->
[ [[PcpAr040708Pt| portugues]]
]
[ [[SwpatcninoEn| News]]
| [[SwpatptEn| PT & Swpat]]
]
----

Note: unfourtunately, as it was the last day of Parliament, they didn't allow to discuss this Demand :|

  Demand
  8/7/2004
                                                                                
  Subject: Software patents: position of Government in European Council
  By: Bruno Dias (PCP), MP
                                                                                
  Your Excellency
  President of the Parliament:
                                                                                
  At the previous session of 17th and 18th May, in Brussels, the
  Competitivity Council discussed the matter of "patentability of
  computer-implemented inventions". At that meeting, according to the
  official documents of the EU Council, the Portuguese State was
  represented by the Minister of Science and Higher Education; the
  State Secretary of Industry, Commerce and Services; and the State
  Secretary of European Matters.
  
TN: the first two are female subjects, the last one is a male one

  According to the same documents from the Council, on that discussion
  item ''was unlocked a political agreement, with qualified majority, for
  a common position'' regarding the european directive proposal focusing this
  subject, said agreement which Spain voted against, and Austria, Belgium
  and Italy abstained.

  The position adopted by the Council will be subject to vote as to the text
  of the proposal to submit for second reading to European Parliament.
  Meanwhile, this position is essentially an option by these governments to
  support the strategy of the European Comission that is, in the sense of
  commiting to open doors for software patentability.

  However, and according to information that this Parliamentary Group received,
  the national parliament of the Netherlands (country who had initially voted
  in favour of the political agreement in the Council) has approved a recommendation
  to the Government, of mandatory type, to alter the official position and
  vote of the Dutch State in this process.

  This decision will carry deep implication for this process in the European
  Council, if another member-state happens to change its vote, a perspective
  which particularly puts on the spot the problem of the position assumed by
  the Portuguese State, and the part played on this subject by the Government
  and the Nation Institute for Industrial Property (INPI).

  About the action of INPI the Parliamentary Group of PCP has already presented
  a Demand to the Government [[n.º1463/IX |(2.ª) ­ AC, de 26/5/2004]], namely
  as to the process of consultation and public discussion that has occurred
  over this matters. We await for an answer by the Government to this Demand.
  At stake is the treatement given by the Government to this important decision
  that is now even more important at the Community level, facing the recent evolution
  in the Council.

  More than ever, one demands that the Government considers and defends the
  national interest, and not the interest of international economic groups of
  the sector. At a time where thousands of portuguese subscribed an european
  petition against the realization of software patents, and that also several
  people in charge of enterprises of our country have pronounced themselves against this
  directive proposal, the Government must stop claiming to the EU about a
  "national agreement", as a pretext to support software patents.

  The Government has to respect the large majority of the opinion that has been
  expressed in our country, ni the sense to refuse the line drawn by the
  European Comission. At the minimum, the Government has to use this opportunity
  to re-evaluate this process at the Competitivity Council, namely assuming the
  much needed change of vote, so that this dangerous and unjust directive proposal
  can be put to a halt.

  Thus, and on the terms of item e) of article 156 of the Constitution of the
  Portuguese Republic, and of item 1) of point 1 of article 5 of the Regiment
  of the Parliament, I demand to the Government, through the Ministers of Science
  and of Higher Education, of Economy and Foreign Affairs, to inform me of the
  following:                                                                                

  1. On what grounds does the Government show this position, at the  European Council
  of Competitivity, defending in the name of the Portuguese State the patentability
  of software?

  2. Does the Government want, or not, to change its vote on this subject, so the
  lines drawn over this domain may be re-evaluated?
                                                                                 
  O Deputado,
  (Bruno Dias)
