Statement by Belgium

"Belgium wishes to congratulate the Presidency on its efforts over the
last five months to make headway with this proposal for a Directive and
in general with all intellectual property projects.

Like all delegations in the Council, the Belgian delegation wishes
investments for innovation in any technical field to be fairly
protected, including computer-implemented inventions . Belgium remains
concerned about the impact of patentability of computer-implemented
inventions on research and competitiveness, especially in the case of
small and medium-sized undertakings, technological innovation, consumer
rights and the interoperability of computer systems.

On certain points the Council has made a number of welcome amendments
to the draft compromise, particularly as regards the exclusion in the
enacting terms of the Directive of computer programmes proper from
patent law protection and the definition of the concept of "technical
contribution". However, the text still does not appear to fully allay
Belgium's concerns, particularly the risk of an obstacle to the
interoperability of computer systems.

On this matter, the Belgian delegation considers that a reminder of the
possible application to right holders of Article 82 of the Treaty
establishing the European Community is not a sufficient measure.
Belgium considers that it would be preferable to lay down that,
strictly speaking, certain acts needed to ensure the interoperability
of computer systems cannot be regarded as an infringement of a patent.

In the same way as an ordinary highway is not designed or intended for
vehicles of a certain type or of a certain manufacturer, we must also
prevent the information highway or its technical components from being
governed by exclusive patent-based property rights. Patents for
software which regulates the exchange of information or
interoperability, the way in which different programmes talk to each
other, will ultimately result in tollbooths being erected on the
information highway and in restrictions on the categories of data bases
which can be freely exchanged. This obviously hampers innovation but
more fundamentally it impedes the free distribution of information and
participation in tomorrow's information society.

Despite the efforts made to arrive at a satisfactory compromise for all
members of the Council, the above reasons have led the Belgian
delegation to abstain in the hope that its concerns will be better
reflected in the text of the Directive at a later stage in the
proceedings."
