= Delhi Science Forum Statement on Software Patents in the Amended Patents Act =
-> [ [[SwpatpenmiEn| 2005-02-01 New Delhi event]] | [[http://lists.ffii.org/mailman/listinfo/in-parl/|FFII India Discussions list]] ]
----

 Delhi Science Forum notes with concern the changes in the Patent Act
 introduced by the recent Ordinance which will allow all computer programs to
 be patented and not only embedded software as is being claimed. The Indian
 Patent Act, as modified in 2002 had made non patentable the following:
 * a mathematical method or a business method or a computer programme per se
 or algorithms.
 The recent amendment instead states:
 * a computer programme per se other than its technical application to
 industry or a combination with hardware; a mathematical method or a business
 method or algorithms;
 The official explanation given is that this amendment is only an expansion
 of the original term computer programme per se and this will allow only the
 patenting of any software, which is applied to control a process, plant or
 machines etc. However, the language of the amendment goes far beyond this
 explanation as it states that any computer program, which has a technical
 application to industry or which can be incorporated in hardware can be
 patented. Since any commercial software has some industry application and
 all applications can be construed as technical applications, we believe that
 it opens all software to patenting.
 By Government~Rs own admission, the only issue on which there was a time
 constraint was to bring in the product patent regime by end 2004 to make our
 Patents Law TRIPS compliant. We are not clear why software patenting has
 been added to the Patents Amendment in such haste when we were already fully
 TRIPS compliant. Surely, the Government could have placed this particular
 amendment in Parliament and also opened it to a national debate? The recent
 amendment seems to have been hastily drafted and without any debate within
 the software community.
 Copyright is automatic, there are virtually no costs associated with
 copyrights; patents have to be filed and filing imposes fairly high costs.
 If they have to be filed in a number of countries, the costs multiply.
 Therefore, moving from a copyright regime to a software patenting one,
 simply makes the cost of developing new software many times higher.  After
 patenting was allowed in the US, smaller developers and independent software
 companies have been under severe attack. Large companies have the ability tie 
 up smaller companies in costly lawsuits for years claiming patent
 infringement, as they already own a large number of patents. Such a patent
 regime would make it difficult for Indian companies in the future to break
 into the global software market with its own products.
 In Europe, there is a huge opposition to software patenting, with small
 business, leading scientists, and economists opposing this measure. The
 software community, particularly the EU Open Linux community, have said that
 it would be a massive blow for developments such as open source software.
 Software patenting in EU came up when the European Commission put forward a
 Directive in February 2002 on the Patentability of Computer-implemented
 inventions. A number of countries in EU have opposed the directive, the
 latest being Poland and this has led to its repeated deferment.
 In this Directive, only software can be given patent protection, which a)
 has significant technological contribution (not just technical application)
 and b) is defined with a reference to a physical environment. It should be
 noted that the Directive does not aim to make it possible to patent computer
 programmes - either on their own or on a carrier, as this could be seen as
 allowing patents for computer programs as such. This makes what is
 patentable much more restrictive than the amended Indian Patent Act. Even
 with this restriction, the critics of the EU directive have pointed out that
 a patent on software is in effect a patent on an idea, while patents have
 been given only for concrete physical inventions. As any software package is
 composed of a number of software components, this will encourage predatory
 practices by large global corporations who have already built large patent
 portfolios. These companies can prevent smaller companies from developing
 their packages threatening them with claims of infringement of some patent
 or the other. This is the reason that most small business organisations in
 EU have opposed this move. In their view software patents would favour large
 companies over small, innovative ones.
 We strongly urge the Government to reconsider this step, which might mean
 that India becomes only a nation of body shoppers and is not able to develop
 its software products in the future. It will also impose unacceptable costs
 on the users, the industry, the Government and of course the general
 public.

 Prabir Purkayastha
