= Bulgarian Declaration =
[ [[SwpatcninoEn| News]] ]
----
''Bulgarian IT companies signed a declaration put forward by FSA-Bg. It has been given to the EU embassies in Sofia.''


 * http://fsa-bg.org/

== Main points ==

 * !SMEs are against software patenting
 * Big Corporations astroturf
 * innovation will suffer
 * standard arguments: market dynamics and dynamic markets etc.

== Declaration  ==

We, Bulgarian IT companies, declare:

In the near future, The European Parliament will 
vote on a directive that will, in fact, legalize the patents in the software.

As citizens of a state that soon will be an EU 
member, we are very embarrassed by this 
development. It contradicts directly with the 
interests of EU and the European IT business. 
And, since these interests are ours, too, we are concerned.

Some say that this directive will protect the 
small and middle business. The truth is the 
directly opposite? look at who supports, and who 
opposes the directive. All supporters of the 
software patents are multinational 
megacorporations. All !SMBs that have expressed an 
opinion, are against the patents.

The !SMBs provide more than 70% of the job 
positions and 2/3 of the taxes collected in the 
IT business. A crash of their business will 
affect negatively not only the IT production of 
the EU, but also the unemployment levels and the 
income of the municipalities and the governments. 
Also, the IT specialists have a big influence in 
the society, and their dissatisfaction may get a broad support.

It is said that without patent protection, the 
business will not dare to innovate, and the IT 
development will suffer. This is not true. The 
companies innovate to be more competitive, with 
or without patents. An introducing of software 
patents will obstruct the implementation of the 
innovations; it is then when the IT development will suffer.


It is said that without patents the software 
innovations cannot be defended. This is not true. 
The innovations are very well defended by the 
copyright laws, which are valid now, and are 
created for this purpose. The patents only create 
exclusive rights, and these are especially dangerous in the software field.


The standard expiration time of a patent ? 20 
years ? is, in most industries, more than the 
life of the innovation it covers. In the 
software, this is not true ? a technology that is 
20 years old is totally useless there. This makes 
the software patents as good as if they were 
eternal ? and this contradicts directly with the very idea of the patenting.


Every program that is practically usable includes 
thousands of software technologies and ideas ? 
that is, it potentially violates thousands of 
patents. If even only a few of them are 
controlled by opponents of this program, it may 
not be created. And there is no programs that 
don't have a competition, at least. Thus, the 
software patents will severely limit the 
abundance of software on the market, and the level of the competition.


Until 1980, when they instituted the software 
patents, USA were practically the world software 
monopoly. Since then, the tendency is reversed ? 
their share both in the production of software 
and in the creation of top software technologies 
decreases. Since Japan instituted software 
patents, despite its huge technological 
potential, its promising software industry 
practically disappeared. The position of EU in 
the software industry is very similar to that of 
Japan before the software patents ? there are no 
reasons to believe that the things here will go otherwise.


On the other side, countries without IT patents 
show a fast growth in their software production. 
Some explain this with the low salaries in 
countries like China and India, but the growth is 
present also in EU, where salaries are much 
higher. Recently India rejected categorically the 
software patents, and China is not expected to 
even consider them. If they are instituted in EU, 
the IT investors will be even more tempted to 
move their production outside EU. A new stimulus 
will join the others ? the danger of litigation 
with software patents. It is potentially even 
larger than the difference in the salaries.


Often some European companies are mentioned as 
main backers of the software patents, but the 
situation is different. Most of the lobbying 
behind the patents is provided by non-European 
companies. This reflects the reality that we will 
have if the patents are instituted. After the 
synchronization of the European patents bank with 
the world, over 90% of the European software 
patents will be in the hands of non-European 
companies. In long-term perspective, this puts 
even the largest European companies in bad 
position; for the !SMBs, this is the immediate perspective.


Right now, EU has the opportunity to free itself 
from the domination by non-European companies, 
and to become a major IT player. An institution 
of the software patents will destroy this 
opportunity, and will put EU again in a 
subordinate position, this time not only to USA, 
but also to some ambitious countries that are 
considered now to be Third World ones. Aside from 
this, EU will be the most convenient territory 
for wars between the USA patent holders and the 
China and India software producers. For the 
conflicting countries the result might be any, 
but the territory is always devastated. Having in 
mind the importance of the software in the modern 
information technologies, and their importance 
for the development, EU risks becoming a Third 
World place, technologically dependent on China and India.


All this is a big concern for all of us. The 
perspective of Bulgaria joining EU begins to look 
like a joining an union that tries to destroy its 
business in the areas of the most advanced 
technologies. This way, such a membership turns 
from a privilege into a danger, for all countries 
? both these who want to join, and these who are already EU members.


With sincerest concern:

signed by more than 20 IT-companies (list is being updated as we send it) 
