= 2003 UN-Bericht über Industrielle Entwicklung kritisiert Patent-Propaganda =
-->
[ [:SwpatcninoDe: Neues]
]
----

Der Bericht der UNIDO beobachtet und bewertet die industrielle Entwicklung in verschiedensten Ländern der Welt und spricht Empfehlungen aus. Bemerkenswert ist, dass Fragen des Patentrechtes hier ökonomisch und nicht ideologisch wie im Europäischen Kontext betrachtet werden.

Basierend auf dem Paper von Chang u.a. zitieren sie die ökonomische Sicht mit deutlicher Kritik an den Kommunikationsansätzen der Patentbewegung.

"Advocacy of strong intellectual property rights presumes that the benefits of appropriation for innovators and disclosure for competitors outweigh the drawbacks of market distortions, making intellectual property rights beneficial to society. This presumption, almost impossible to test empirically, remains the subject of debate."

Aus dem Kontext ergibt sich, dass mit "intellectual property rights" hier speziell Patente gemeint sind.

Desweiteren werden interessante Informationen darüber gegeben, welche Länder Lizenzgebphren zahlen

"Technology licence payments rose 17 percent a year in 1985?1998, even faster than FDI flows. The world leaders are the United States and Japan, which are also the largest industrial innovators and technology exporters. The growth of their technology exports suggests that innovators are specializing and that technology markets are becoming quite
integrated. East Asia pays far more royalty fees than any other developing region (figure 2.10). East Asia (excluding China) also has by far the highest per capita spending on these fees (about $27), in line with its high-tech specialization. That the region also
spends the most on R&D and receives the most FDI suggests that these different modes of acquiring and developing technology complement each other. South Asia and Sub-Saharan
Africa (excluding South Africa) spend the least per capita on royalties (less than $0.25 each), suggesting a massive?and possibly harmful?gap in accessing world technologies. In
1998, 10 countries accounted for 86 percent of the developing world?s spending on royalty fees (figure 2.11). The bottom 30 countries accounted for almost none."

Offensichtlich scheint die Marktabschottung durch Patentrechte möglich zu sein.

Der Bericht verwirft die Bedeutung der Softwareindustrie Indiens und bemerkt: economy. "But even India has a relatively weak base of industrial capabilities relative to the size of its economy. Moreover, small islands of technological success, as in software, do not reflect the dynamism and competitiveness of the industrial sector as a whole."

Beachtenswert ist auch, dass den Verfassern die Zuordnung von Software in den Bereich der Dienstleistung wohlbekannt ist. Es werden einige interessante Fakten geliefert.

"Enterprises have always been the main investors in new technologies,
particularly in industrialized countries. In OECD countries enterprises conducted 69 percent of total R&D in 1997, up from 66 percent in 1981. The share of higher education
institutes remained constant at 17 percent, while that of government fell from 15 percent to 11 percent. Private non-profit institutions account for the rest.21 Among enterprises,
manufacturing remains the main source of R&D. But the share of services, driven by software, is rising?accounting for 15 percent of the OECD total in 1997.22 Distinctions
between manufacturing and services are somewhat arbitrary, however, as the lines between them blur and industrial enterprises contract functions to independent enterprises.
To cope with global competition and the growing complexity of knowledge, enterprises are specializing in their core competencies. As a result large enterprises no longer develop all their innovation in-house, but increasingly procure it from other enterprises. Several channels, discussed later in the report, provide access to the required knowledge. Innovation surveys suggest that inter-enterprise collaboration is the most
important."

= Vollständiger Bericht (5.7 MB) =
http://www.unido.org/userfiles/hartmany/12IDR_full_report.pdf
