= 2004-05-26 OSRM announces Patent FUD Risk Insurance =

see also [:SwpatcninoEn: Latest News]

The business information service Newsforge released [http://business.newsforge.com/business/04/05/19/1742218.shtml?tid=2&tid=82&tid=94 an interview of Joe Barr with Daniel Egger] today.

Daniel Egger from OSRM (Open Source Risk Management) explains his insurance business model that is based on other's FUD. 

  Like a lot of people, I had not thought about the risks of using Linux until the SCO  
  suits happened. Because I was a lawyer and a litigator, I thought it would be interesting to
  look at their legal papers. I got ahold of them and I was struck by how weak their argument
  was right away. But I was also struck by the huge amount of fear and concern and uncertainty
  that their claim had caused. 

  It occurred to me that what we are dealing with here is a a kind of structural vulnerability
  in the legal system, where you can sue end users for copyright or patent infringement who
  have been acting completely in good faith, and have no reason to know that anyone might think
  they are infringing anything. Then they are faced with the cost of defending themselves, even
  if the suit had no merit. And that seemed to me the kind of problem that in other areas gets
  resolved by insurance. 

Insurance programs against patent risks are a way to describe the market risk of FUD or real patent litigation risk in monetary terms. So the external effects of patents can be easily depicted.

Egger continues: 
  Linus Torvalds himself said at a speech at Brainshare a couple of months ago that he thought
  the biggest risk to Linux in the next year is software patent litigation. And I agree with
  that, and [:so :do] a bunch of other people: Jeremey Allison said the same thing in an article
  I read, and Bruce Perens has been saying that for months and months. That kind of risk is not
  even addressed in the SCO suit; they didn't bring any patent claims. But the same problem
  exists, which is if you're an end user, and you get sued for patent infringement, the fact
  that you relied on the software in good faith and did nothing wrong doesn't protect you from
  liability for the use of the software.

Recently FFII announced his own European insurance program that is called: [:ElectAct0405En: Talk to your MEP candidates!]
