= Campaign for creativity issues a Press Release after the vote of 6th July =

----

== Sources ==

http://www.prnewswire.co.uk/cgi/news/release?id=149718

----

  European Parliament Rejects all Anti-Patent Group Amendments,
  and Backs Away From Unifying the Patentability of High Tech
  Innovations Across Europe

  STRASBOURG, July 6 ''PRNewswire'' -- After five years of deliberation
  on the patentability of high-tech innovation in Europe, the European 
  Parliament has overwhelmingly rejected all amendments put forward by
  anti-patent groups, and thrown out a piece of legislation that would
  have harmonised the existing practice of member-countries to the
  European Patent Office.

  The decision will have mixed outcomes for everyone involved, namely
  those companies with European CII patents who remain unsure whether
  their patents are valid under certain EPO member jurisdictions, while
  those who have strongly opposed the idea of intellectual property
  in this field are still faced with a situation where the status quo
  remains.

  Simon Gentry of the Campaign for Creativity said today's outcome
  reflects that the majority of the European Parliament were not prepared
  to buy into the emotive fear and uncertainty being forced on them 
  by anti-patent groups. There was a clear majority who understood their
  amendments would have damaged European innovation in the high-tech
  industry.

  "But today's decision also represents a lost opportunity for Europe
  to establish a common ground for high-tech innovation that would help
  foster further successes and development in this field

  "Supporting companies of the Campaign for Creativity have always
  believed in the benefits this Directive offered them as way of
  strengthening their intellectual assets.

  "Equally important supporting SMEs saw the Directive as a beginning
  to much needed reform of the current patent system. Today's outcome
  does not change this, and we would hope all issues raised in the CII
  debate can be further assessed as a means of broader patent reform
  to strengthen Europe's competitive position on a global stage.

  Benno Hijl, Executive Director of 3D ID, a Dutch software company
  specialising in search engine technology and a supporter of the 
  Directive believes today's outcome is a good result.

  "For a small company with only patent protection as a means of
  building my company, I feel comfortable in knowing that the time,
  money and resource I have invested into my company's products are
  not going to be removed in any form.

  "The scope of some of the amendments if they had been voted in
  favour of today would have rendered my innovations worthless.
  I can understand the concerns of those against the Directives 
  but it was clear they were going too far, and this is why I believe
  the European Parliament will now begin to look at a broader reform
  of the patent system rather than focus specifically on software
  patents which has distorted the bigger picture in regards to what
  Europe needs.

  Dr Julian Potter, a partner of intellectual property firm Mintz
  Levin believes today's vote was the only way to ensure that
  European software companies could retain effective patent protection
  for their software inventions.

  "Those opposed to patent protection for software inventions saw the
  Directive as an opportunity to reduce the scope of protection for
  software inventions. However patent protection remains, as it
  always has been, available for software inventions," he said.

  Distributed by PR Newswire on behalf of Campaign for Creativity
