= MEP Buitenen asks parliamentary questions on EPLA and European Parliament's involvement =
----

''MEP Paul van Buitenen asks the European Commission wise questions about the European Patent Litigation Agreement and the community patent and what future role the European Union will play under these proposed regimes.''

----

== Question ==

  WRITTEN QUESTION E-1949/06
  by Paul van Buitenen (Verts/ALE)
  to the Commission
  
  Subject:    Publication of list of questions on the Community patent
  
  The internal market DG has published a list of questions relating to the
  Community patent and a future system for settling disputes relating to
  European patents granted by the European Patent Office (EPLA).
  
  1.    In what way will the European Union institutions, and in particular
  the European Parliament, be involved in the operation of the European
  patent system
  a)    in the event of the introduction of the Community patent;
  b)    in the event of the introduction of a system for settling disputes
  relating to European patents (EPLA).
  
  2.    At present the European Patent Organisation is an independent
  organisation outside the legal framework of the European Community and, as
  such, is not bound by European directives relating to patent law, for
  example Directive 44/1998[1] of the European Parliament and of the Council
  on biotechnological inventions.

  How will the implementation of European legislation in the area of patent
  law be ensured within the European Patent Organisation
  a)    in the event of the introduction of the Community patent;
  b)    in the event of the introduction of a system for settling disputes
  relating to European patents?

  -----------------------
  [1]   OJ L 213, 30.7.1998, p. 13

== Answer by the Commission ==

  E1949/06NL
  Answer of Mr McCreevy
  on behalf of the Commissie
  (29.6.2006)
  
  [:unofficial :translation]
  In Januari 2006 DG Internal Market and Services started with the talks
  about the future policy on the field of patents in Europe and the first
  resultats of that will be made public and be spoken about during a
  public debate to be held in Brussels on 12 July 2006. The followup given
  to the diverse law giving initiatives has therefore still to be
  determined. As far as approval of the regulation relating to the
  Community patent is concerned, the Council, in agreement with article
  308 of the ECTreaty has decided to consult again the European Parliament
  in case the regulation relating to the Community patent should be put to
  discussion again.
  
  1. As soon as the working of the system for conflict settlement at
  European patents (EPLA = European Patent Litigation Agreement) is
  approved and the Community has accessed the European Patent Treaty (EOV)
  the Community will be committed to the same rights and obligations as
  each of the other parties to the treaty (representation in the Governing
  Board of the European Patent Office [1], et cetera). The Parliament can
  also ask the Commission to provide information regarding specific cases
  which are of special interest to the Community.
  
  The way in which the Parliament will be involved with the ratification
  procedure of the EPLA will depend on the current base of law.
  
  2. In 1999 the European Patent Office (EPO) adopted the provisions of
  Directive 98/44/EG [2] by means of the implementation regulations in the
  European Patent Treaty (EPT). The provisions of the directive are
  therefore part and parcel of the EPT and the EPO is now bound by these
  provisions. In the future this will also go for the directives in the
  fields the EPT applies to, or the provisions of these directives will
  themselves be adopted in the EPT by way of changes made in accordance
  with the current decision making procedure of the EPT.
  
  The planned Community patent is not set to change the structure of the
  European patent system. It will rather create a link between the
  Community and the EPO, which is an independent body. Whereas the
  provisions of the EPT can in principle be applied to matters which are
  dealt with before the issuing of the Community patent (including
  procedural matters and matters of content) the regulation on the
  Community patent could be applicable for matters dealt with after the
  issuing of a Community patent (including matters concerning the
  validity, counterfeiting, transfer and obligatory licencing). The
  European Patent Office would then apply the new unitary law on Community
  patents, and it would be tied to it. Moreover, by the access of the
  Community to the EPT the EPT forms a part of the acquis communautaire
  that is explained by the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
  
  In this stadium the question in which way the application of the
  communitary patent right would be safeguarded at the implementation of a
  framework for conflict settlement (EPLA) cannot be answered. The
  Commission inquires at this moment the draft-EPLA as well as its
  possible institutional consequences.
  
  [1] Executive body of the European  Patent Office (EPO).
  
  [2]Directive 98/44/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 6
  July 1998 on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions PB L
  213 van 30.7.1998.

== Sources ==

 * find the sources on the messy EP website (google is not your friend)
