= Panel III 16:30-17:30 Competitivity of Knowledge Economies =

== Questions  ==

 * How can EU become "the most competitive knowledge economy by 2010"?

 * What EU policy goals have been formulated, by whom, with what understanding?

 * Which factors affect Europe's "competitivity" compared to US, Japan, India etc

 * How do public and private research and patents influence "competitivity" of Europe?
      
 * The Commission Recital 16 claims that software patents would improve Europe's competitivity with respect to its main trading partners.  JURI and Council add a new rationle which says that Europe's competitivity is improved mainly with respect to "low-cost economies" (e.g. China, India, Russia, Poland, Hungary, ...), to which currently manufacturing processes are being shifted.  Can these claims be verified?

 * The Irish Presidency has spelled out "competitivity", raising percentage of research expenditures in GDP to 3%, increasing private R&D, strengthening public investment in network infrastructure, ... centralising the patent system, securing "protection" of "computer-implemented inventions" etc as policy goals, see links in [http://swpat.ffii.org/players/ie/ Ireland and software patents].  What is driving these policies, on what rationales and interests are they based, how reliable are the comparative statistics (e.g. on R&D expenditures in regions) which they cite? 

= Participants  =

Birgitte Andersen (IPR policy research, Birkbeck University of London, UK), J. Bessen (MIT, USA), Y. Meniere (Cerna, FR), T. Noisette (TemPS Reels, French Socialist Party, FR), S. Perchaud (Europe Shareware, FR), J.P. Smets (Nexedi.com, FR)

== Chair  ==

Daniel Cohn-Bendit MEP (Chairman of Green Group, France-Germany)

== Shadow Chair ==

Sylvain Perchaud (MD of Europe Shareware)

== Abstracts ==

= Birgitte Andersen (Birkbeck University of London, UK) =

Title : IPR Policy for Business and Society.

Abstract :

 The speech will emphasize how we need to bring interdisciplinary 
 research and social responsibility into the consideration of 
 intellectual property rights (IPRs). It also will highlight how 
 cross-institutional dialogue between the researchers and the designers, 
 owners and users of the IPR system is the best underpinning for both 
 informed research and informed IPR policy. Three research priority 
 themes are discussed.

 i The rationales, operation and effects of IPR regimes: The speech 
 will address the policy goals for IPRs, and then discuss if the system 
 really performs in relation to its objectives.

 ii The evolution of IPR regimes setting the rules of the game in the 
 knowledge-driven economy: The speech contributes to an understanding of 
 the changing role of IPR regimes, as the main institution setting the 
 rules for the game (or forms of competition) for business and society.

 iii Governing value and rent (or profit) creation and distribution 
 from IPRs: The presentation will emphasize how collaborative innovation 
 networks within sectoral systems are increasing in relevance and 
 complexity, and that IPR policy therefore must not be based upon 'too 
 exclusive' rights.


= Yann Ménière (Cerna, FR) =

Abstract :

 In the first part of the presentation, I argue that assessing correctly 
 the economic impact of software patents requires taking into account 
 some important specificities of the software technology. The traditional 
 economic wisdom about patents is that they promote innovation. Patents 
 indeed provide an incentive to invest in R&D and they facilitate the 
 trading of knowledge. They may however also impede innovation in some 
 particular cases, namely when innovations are complementary and 
 cumulative. Innovations are cumulative when they result from each other, 
 and complementary when they are embedded in several broader technologies. 
 This is typically the case of software, where routines and subroutines are  
 regularly improved and re-used. The economic problem with such interdependent 
 innovations is that as one final software product may embody several, and 
 eventually a lot of, different patents belonging to different owners. 
 The need to identify these patents and to strike a deal between all their 
 owners creates uncertainty and yields significant additional costs on
 innovation. This problem is worsened if the patent office is not able to
 implement correctly the patentability requirement. This is the case in
 the United States where it has resulted in a flood of weakly inventive
 software patents with claims of high generality. 


= Sylvain Perchaud (Europe Shareware, FR) =

Abstract :

 The Silicon Valley entrepreneurs have always benefited from large investments
 of Venture Capital (VC) funds. In fact the Silicon Valley is said to be one 
 of the most liberal place of the planet, thanks to near-zero tax on the 
 benefits made by VC funds.
 Why is european venture capitalism so weak in comparison ?
 Why is IT the poor relation of EU investors ?
 In regard to the latests EU engagements in favour of innovation, we'll 
 discuss the solutions at hand to encourage investment in IT companies.


= Jean-Paul Smets (Nexedi, FR) =

Abstract :

 European protection system for software innovations has always excluded
 the enforceability of software patents. This situation raises concerns
 regarding the competitivity of European vs. US economy where the patent 
 systems are different:
 is it a competitive advantage or a disadvantage for the European economy
 to be based on a different system than the United States ? 
 is it a competitive advantage or a competitive disadvantage for the 
 United States economy to be based on a different system than Europe ?
 Our presentation will discuss the relative competitivity of interacting 
 markets based on different patent system. We will study market barrier 
 effects and segmentation of innovators.
