= PR on Rocard appointment as new rapporteur =
-->
[ [:MichelRocardEn: Rocard]
| [:SwpatcninoEn: Patent News]
]
----

== Former Prime Minister to Manage Software Patent Case in EP ==

FFII, the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure, is pleased that Michel Rocard has been appointed as new rapporteur for the software patent directive. During the first reading in the European Parliament, he was rapporteur for this topic in the CULT committee. CULT's opinion was confirmed in the Parliament's plenary vote of 24 september 2003.

Erik Josefsson, permanent FFII representative in Brussels, said: "We think this gives him the necessary moral leverage and expertise to handle this politically loaded dossier. We hope this will result in a second reading where MEPs get a clear view of what is at stake, instead of being left wondering about what could be the difference between software and pure software. This and other smokescreen debates that plagued the Parliament in the first reading are hopefully a thing of the past."

"By building upon the achievements of the first reading, the European Parliament has a great opportunity to avoid the mistake made in the US of extending the patent system into areas where we now know it does more harm than good. They can also help the European Patent Office to stop granting patents on business methods, as its present case law and reinterpretation of the European Patent Convention forces it to do", he added.

The second reading of the European Parliament can start once the Council agrees on a common position. For a while, 24 September 2004 seemed to be the date the Council was aiming for to formally adopt its extreme counterproposal from May, written for them by more or less the same people that lead the European Patent Office. However, suddenly the Dutch Presidency started to spread the message that it would only be handled in November at the earliest.

"We are very happy that some Council members are reopening the debate. We hope that the coming discussions will focus on economic studies and opinions from well-respected institutions such as Deutsche Bank, as opposed to legal nitpicking. Until now, the Council listened primarily to the patent bureaucracy, which would prefer no directive to a compromise between the Council and the Parliament", said Jonas Maebe, Belgian FFII spokesman. 

"As it stands today, the directive project is more or less dead if COREPER does not come up with a better text for the Parliament's second reading. Having no directive would close this window of opportunity to make our European knowledge economy more competitive. Keeping it lean and innovating at a high speed is of paramount importance in this respect, as a recent report on the Lisbon Strategy from !PricewaterhouseCoopers stressed."
