## -*- dok: Borrell050706; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -*-
= Josep Borrell: Why the Parliament rejected the Directive =
->
[ [:Borrell050706Es: español]
]
[ [:PressConf050706En: Conference]
| [:SwpatcninoEn: News]
]
----

''6th July 2005, Strasburg -- On the day of the rejection of the Commission's and Council's "Common Position" for a directive "on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions" (software patent directive), the president of the European Parliament sharply criticises the unconstructive approach of the Commission and Council to the dossier and explains this unprecedented move of the Parliament as a logical reaction to this approach.''

Well thank you very much to everyone. Now, what has happened in
European Parliament has shown that Europe is at a crossroads but is
not paralized. And we aren't broken down. We continue to do with
very important subjets. And today, we've had a vote which we can
call, if not historic, at least well something that's happening for
the very first time. I think it's the first time if I'm not wrong
that the European Parliament is rejecting a Common Position of
Council. On a few occasions, the Parliament rejected the result of
the process of Conciliation. But today, it has rejected a Common
Position of Council. Well, and in an overwhelming fashion. 648 votes
in favour and 14 against. This is perhaps the most unanimous vote we
ever had.

Now, the rapporteur, Mr. Rocard, has worked very hard on the subject
will explain the details, the technical details, well not just the
technical details, but the details of what's at stakes here today.

Now, I would just like to put out the critical importance that that
has for interinstitutional balance and for the role the Parliament
does clay. I would like to emphasis that on three early occasions,
the Parliament rejected the draft proposal of the Comittee of
Counciliation on biotechnologies, on OPAs and port services in 2003.
But this time, we rejected the Common Position of Council as I've
said, and we've done so after having previously asked Council to
withdraw it -- sorry we asked the Commission to withdraw it. Now,
the Commission -- I have to say very courteously of course --
ignored us totally. We've asked them to withdraw it and they've said
they want to maintain it. Well this is the result now. And I hope
the Commission will note that, and the Council as well. The
Commission proposes, but it doesn't decide, doesn't dispose. It's
the legislative bodies that decide: the Council and the Parliament.
And we do so on an equal footing, the two of us. Now this time, the
Parliament has demonstrated this, and this is one more milestone in
the history of the Parliament, which is assuming its functions and
carrying them out. Today, they did want to withdraw their proposal,
so they got 648 votes against it.

I also have to say that I've found it totally inappropriate how
certain Commissionners conduct themselves, that before the vote of
the Parliament had warned -- and this term "warned" is an
euphemism -- they warned that if the Parliament rejected the draft
directive they would not present any other. Of course the Commission
has the monopoly over initiative taken -- I mean they're legally
right to say this -- but the Commissionners are paid extremely well
to take up problems and to propose solutions which can receive the
support of legislators. And if there's a problem and the solution
that they've put forward isn't convincing to those who have to
approve it, and they still think that there's a problem, they're
going to have to put forward another solution, because if not,
they're not fulfilling their functions. And I hope I'm going to be
able to talk to Mr. Barroso about this attitude, which doesn't
correspond to the spirit of the agreement that we've signed, both
institutions, to, in a more coordinated constructive fashion to
carry out the functions of each of our institutions.

There is a problem. And the solution that has been proposed is not
satisfactory. This is very clear, we see this in the vote, and Mr.
Rocard will explain why. Now, of course the Commission can say
"well, let's just leave things as they are", but I don't think
that's any reasonable way of going to got carrying out of their
functions.

Now, we'll have the opportunity to discuss this. But I'd like to
recall that after the rejection of biotechnologies and the OPAs,
after that, there were new directives put forward, and then accepted
by the Parliement. And in the subject of port services, there's a
new directive that is being discussed. So, I can't say the
Commission formally hasn't respected the agreement between our two
institutions, but I think that we can work in a more coordinated
fashion to achieve the common good for Europe.

I'm very pleased that the Parliament has very clearly marked its
position. Of course, it would have been better if, among all of us,
we had been able to agree on specific amendments, and it would have
made it possible for us to move forward, but there were enough
differences between the Parliament's position and that of Commission
and Council for us to achieve this result which was to be expected.
And I hope that the Parliament will be taken in more considerations
starting from now. Thank you. The rapporteur...
