= FFII Press release policy proposal =

By: arebenti
----

In PrPipeEn all requests for planned PR with a drafting deadline are mentioned, e.g invitation mail for conference etc.

0. An automatic orthography check has to be made before even submitting the draft for discussion. A responsible person for sending has to be found in advance by the draft person and a release date be specified.

1. Sent the draft to releg-de, releg-en at minimum. Other lists such as media-help, de -help etc. can also get involved. 


2.Specify a release date in advance in that mail and specify the intended audience, resp. persons in a draft header

   TO be submitted 28-05-2005, 10 h
   TO: News@ffii.org, PR people
   Responsible for sending: Blasum
   Chair responsible: arebenti until 27-05-05 night, 28-05-02 morning: Blasum
   translations:
   German, resp. Ccorn@ffii.org, 2b submitted 28.05.2005, 14h via Holger
   French, resp. gibus, 2 b submitted 28.052005, 15h via Gibus
   Dutch, independend PR, resp. Awessels
   Discussion: #bxl-ffii 27-05-05 22h+, releg-en, us-help
   Background: Siemens240505En, counter Siemens FUD

Good release dates are at least 4 days in advance. For emails usually Monday is better than Friday.

A versioning scheme will get applied when discussed by mail. Drafting in the wiki will adhere to the FFII wiki standards. Chair will merge changes submitted to him. If he is not available, he passes the chair to another person with agreement to him. Chair in the morning of the submission will be overtaken by the responsible sender. The last chair always sents his final version to the submitter.

e.g arebenti and others draft until 4 o Clock, then Arebenti sents his chair version to Holger who takes over chair in the morning and makes the last changes. This mail to Holger would get named "Chair V.17" or like that.

4. Veto to a prepared PR only by Board, phm, arebenti (German media project), jonas (En) OR rough consensus and an agreement of the chair. Alternative proposals can be started, but it must be indicated that the former version is obsolete.

5. Corrections until the release date.

6. The responsible person '''will''' sent the PR to the specified persons after the release date




== Other opinions ==


=== Gibus ===
This time the mail was written by Hartmut just before flighing away, and there was a feeling of urgency, confirmed by phone calls from Hartmut thursday evening (I've tried to write down his recommandations after a long call from more than 30 minutes near 1am) and a message at 7.30am friday morning.

How can we expect to have a proper message, when this message is rewritten by two tired guys in the night, with one sleeping on his keyboard and the pther giving up at 2am; and then rewritten in the morning (while one of this short-sleepy guys was in office and not supposed to be paid to work for FFII) ? Last question from Holger was "is it OK to send out last version (y/n) ?" and my answer was "go, we haved already passed too much time discussing on the wording".

So please don't blame Holger or I or Jonas (who made some good coments on releg-en list and who has also received some hartmut's call on phone) for the fact that this mail was not perfect. To be honnest I was upset waking up this this morning finding sentence like "I'm a bit shocked that even the few people at FFII who write usable texts don't know...". My first reaction was to answer harshly "I'm bit shoked that one can consider critics to a communication with corporations when there is already so much lack of good communication with collaborative volunteers".

After a proper sleepy night, I'm still wondering why we have sent this mail on Friday morning instead of waiting Monday...

Next time, I'd say "no" to Holger until I have sufficient distance to have a critical look of what has been drafed.
