= 2004-05-14 Lucio Stanca letter against Software Patents and Irish Proposal =

== Related Documents ==

 * [[http://www.marcovic.it/Prot_1069.pdf|original (pdf)]]
 * [[Stanca040514It| original (text)]]
 * [[Ital040514En| news report]]

== Translation of the Letter ==

of the Italian Innovation and Technology Minister Lucio Stanca to the ministers in charge of dealing with the Software Patent Directive in the Council.

Thanks to Simo Sorce!

----

  THE MINISTER FOR INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY

                                        On.Rocco BUTTIGLIONE
                                        Minister for Comunitary Politics
                                        Piazza Nicosia, 20
                                        Roma

                                        On.Antonio MARZANO
                                        Minister for Productive Activities
                                        Via Molise, 2
                                        Roma

                                        On.Letizia Moratti
                                        Minister of Instruction, University
                                        and Research
                                        Viale trastevere
                                        Roma



I have examined the Directive proposal on the matter of patentability of
software to be discussed on May 17, 2004 in the Competition Council and here I
transmit you my position.

Given that:

 * I fully agree with the necessity to harmonize the matter inside the Union
 * I agree with the necessity of a specific norm on a matter so new and evolving, today too subject to interpetation because we miss specific clear and unique rules.
 * we all agree to the principle of the non-patentability of software as such.

I transmit you my perplexity on the matter

(1)
The generic principle of non-patentability of software translates in this
Directive proposal into a common and declared acceptance of the principle
of patentability of software, but under the three generic conditions for
the patentability, which, for the software field, are specified in an
inadequate way.
That leaves much space to interpretation, with the risk of extending the
cases of applications of software patents, yet possible in the actual
situation (30.000 software and similar patents yet released by the European
Patent Office).
Therefore it would be advisable to pursue a more detailed and limiting
definition of the conditions of patentability.

(2) The substantial elimination of the parliament amendments form the proposal
to be voted, the fact the Italian proposal was not inserted in the acts and
the proposal of Germany, Belgium and Denmark about the "technical
contribution" determine a too vague description of the conditions needed to
grant a possible software patent, permitting the existence of a grey area
that worries particularly, given the fact that the italian enterprises are
for most SMEs and independent developers even in the software field.
For these entities an extension of the patentability of software may
limit their activity and raise expenses.
                                                                                                                                                                
(3) The acknowledgement of the protection in exchange of the offering of
knowledge, founding principle of the patent "contract" needs, to be
realized, adequate instruments of offering knowledge, which in case of
software, today, does not exist and are not foreseen in the Directive
proposal. That will inevitably disadvantage the SMEs of the sector and
will enlarge the contentions.

(4) An excessive usage of software patents may have relevant consequences on
competition in the software market. The Directive in discussion confirms,
for example, actual use of patents on protocols and other software
elements which make more difficult to pursue interoperability between
programs produced by different enterprises, limiting in fact the development
of the market.

(5) The monitoring and possible review provided by the Directive proposal seem
completely uneffective in the software market. To the three years of
monitoring there add 2 years provided for ratification by member states
and another year (minimum) necessary to conduct a revision of the norm in
discussion; these times are incompatible with the dynamicity of this market.

In conclusion

In consideration of the fact that the development of big innovations in the
Society of Information, Internet, the WWW and more recently, the Open Source
applications, are the result of a big collaboration at a worldwide level,
considered today as digital goods accessible to everyone (Digital Commons),
the Directive proposal seem to be in counter-tendency to the developments
of recent years.

For the presented motivations, I ask you to represent at the Competitivity
Council, the critical position of the Italian Government. Given the complexity
and implications of the matter and its relevance for the development of the
Italian and European ICT Industry, I recommend to avoid hurried decisions
and to start common initiatives to further study the matter.


Lucio Stanca
