Up: Cons041217aEn

From

http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st14/st14574-ad01.en04.pdf

later also from the ADD 1 of the "A" Item note:
 
http://register.consilium.eu.int/pdf/en/04/st16/st16120-ad01.en04.pdf

3. Statement by the Netherlands
   (Translation in English provided by the Netherlands delegation)
The Kingdom of the Netherlands states that it considers the harmonisation directive on
the patentability of computer-implemented inventions to be of high importance. On 18
May, the Netherlands, part of a qualified majority of member states, politically agreed
with the text of a common position in first reading. The Dutch Parliament stated as its
position that the political agreement offers insufficient guarantees to prevent proliferation
regarding software patenting. This concern will be taken into account by the Netherlands
in the further consideration of the directive in second reading.

The directive aims to harmonise the rules within the European Union on the patenting of
computer-implemented inventions and to offer clarity on which inventions are patentable
and which are not.

In this light, the Netherlands wishes to confirm explicitly that the directive text now
under consideration aims to exclude non-technical, non-inventive inventions, business
methods and pure software from patentability. This is because patenting of this nature
will not make a positive contribution to the ability to innovate.

Recently, a lot of public and political debate has arisen on the proposed directive and the
patenting of computer-implemented inventions in general. On further consideration of
this directive in second reading, the Netherlands will confirm as it premises that the rules
on and the implementation practice of the patentability for computer-implemented
inventions are sufficiently clear and that the aforementioned undesirable forms of
patenting are prevented.
Therefore, the Netherlands will in second reading only be able to agree with a directive
text that does not disturb the balance between patentability and non-patentability.
