= Media Echo 2004-06-04 =
-->
[ [:Nlparl040603En: Dutch Parliament 2004-06-03 on Swpat]
]
----

 * [http://www.persberichten.com/detail.asp?id=20156 2004-06-02 Brinkhorst onder vuur in spoeddebat over softwarepatenten]  

Dutch press reported on the Parliamentary debate on friday (2004-06-04) as follows:

State secretary Van
Gennip apologises that minister Brinkhorst disinformed the
Parliament. She admits that a letter that Minister Brinkhorst wrote to
Parliament was "wrong". This, according to the article, is all the
more painful for Brinkhorst, because only recently he criticised
members of Parliament in very strong wording for their tiny
comprehension of the EU. The "harsh words apply to ourselves",
according to the state secretary. The Minister wrote the letter on 10
May, when the state secretary was on maternity leave.  In the letter
it is written the the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament
very recently came to an agreement on a text of a directive about
patents on software. In the next meeting of the Ministers in the
Council for Competitive (what was the term again) this item "therefore
is an A
(rubber-stamp) point on the agenda", according to the letter.

State secteray Van Gennip had to use a lot of words explaining that
this was only a first step in the decision making process that will
probably not be closed until next year. After a proposal of the
European Commission the Council of Ministers and the European
Parliament will first have to agree about that proposal.

The European Parliament had adopted 64 amendements to the draft*directive of
the Commission. The ministers already agreed on 26 of these, and as far as the
Council of Ministers is concerned, 10 amendments are still open for discussion.

The Parliament (House of Commons) was not just really critical about
the letter, but demanded also that minister Brinkhorst would not take
a position about this without speaking with the Parliament before.

The three left-wing parties wanted to go one step futher and demanded that
Brinkhorst vote against the draft-directive. Closing lines of the
(nationwide-spread) article: The directive would make work impossible for
small, innovating software companies and would bring big companies like
Microsoft in a profitable position."
