= Elspeth Atwooll (MEP, UK Libdem) 2004-06-04 on Software Patents =
--> [[SwpatcninoEn| News]], [[ElectUkPart0405En| UK Parties]], [[ElectUkLib0405En| UK Lib Dems]], [[SwpatukEn| UK Patent Family]], [[Libdem031208En| Libdem Youth 2003-12-08]]
----

Elspeth Atwooll apparently seems quite happy with
the Council's text, even though the UK !LibDems are supposed to be anti-swpat.

(But note that in [[LtrAtwooll040609En| another letter]]  a few days later, she does soon seem
to realise the 'weakness' of the Council text).


  Further to our correspondence on the proposed EU Directive on the
  patentability of computer-implemented inventions, I wanted to update you
  following the adoption of the common position, and outline our position on
  software patents. 

  We addressed this issue in the Liberal Democrat IT policy paper "Making IT
  Work" which was adopted at our Spring Conference in 2003. This made it
  clear that we would "support continued widespread innovation in software by
  resisting the wider application of patents in this area."   The LibDems are
  in favour of increased legal certainty in the EU; a balance needs to be
  struck between the needs of small business on the one hand, to protect
  their inventions - and big business, on the other, from patenting
  everything to the exclusion of competitors.  This has guided our approach
  to the legislation during its passage through the European Parliament.

  The European Parliament voted its first reading on the proposal in
  September 2003 where amendments were adopted to strictly limit patents to
  new inventions only.  The Parliament's position would harmonise current
  practice in the European Patents Office, and ensure that patents in the
  field of computer engineering would be issued on the same basis in all EU
  Member States.  Specifically, the UK Liberal Democrats supported an
  amendment to the definition, so that "In order to be patentable, a
  computer-implemented invention must be susceptible of industrial
  application and new and involve an inventive step.  In order to involve an
  inventive step, a computer-implemented invention must make a technical
  contribution". 

  More recently, as you will know, the Council of Ministers adopted its
  common position on 18 May 2004.  This is the text of the legislation as
  Government Ministers wish to see it adopted.  The Council has specifically
  excluded a computer program, as such, from constituting a patentable
  invention.  It has also accepted the Parliament's amendment (above) as the
  Condition of Patentablity. 

  I hope this will allay your concerns.  
  Yours sincerely,
  Elspeth Attwooll 


This complacency despite an informed letter from her constituent which clearly 
drew attention to concerns about the Council text:

  ... Having listened with interest to the recording of the debate, it is 
  clear that while concerns were raised as to the potential for this 
  directive to harm innovation and competition in Europe, the final text 
  completely fails to address these concerns substantively.

  In particular, a number of member states seem to have been mislead as to 
  the effect of a German amendment which was modified after it had been 
  circulated (this modification effectively rendered the amendment 
  complete inert).

  This and other brazenly underhanded tactics appear to have been 
  effective in pushing through a text which fails to address any of the 
  concerns that were addressed by the amendments made by the European 
  Parliament in September 2003. ...

  (Ian C.)
