[:SwpatEictaEn: EICTA]

Ericsson addresses trouble with litigation costs in the annual report 2003:

"Our products incorporate complex technology involving intellectual
property rights (IPR) developed by us that may be difficult to protect
or may be found to infringe on the rights of others.

While we have been issued a number of patents and other patent
applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any
of these patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented,
or that any rights granted under these patents will in fact provide
competitive advantages to us.

We utilize a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies,
nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements in addition to
relying on patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our
intellectual property rights. However, these measures may not be
adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take
appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary
rights. In fact, existing laws of some countries in which we conduct
business may offer only limited protection of our intellectual
property rights, if at all.

Many key aspects of networking technology are governed by
industry-wide standards, which are usable by all market participants.
As the number of market entrants as well as the complexity of the
technology increases, the possibility of functional overlap and
inadvertent IPR infringement also increases. Third parties have
asserted, and in the future may assert, claims against us alleging
that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Defending such
claims may be expensive, time consuming and divert the efforts of our
management and/or technical personnel. As a result of litigation, we
could be required to pay damages and other compensation, develop
non-infringing products/technology or enter into royalty or licensing
agreements. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if
available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable
terms."
