= WIPO SCP Casablanca Statement =
[ [:EPO050223En: EPO B+] ]
----


= STATEMENT ADOPTED AT THE END OF INFORMAL CONSULTATIONS IN CASABLANCA ON FEBRUARY 16, 2005 =


1. Following the mandate given to him by the WIPO General Assembly in
September 2004, the Director General of WIPO convened informal consultations concerning
future sessions of the Standing Committee on the Law of Patents (SCP) in Casablanca,
Morocco, on February 16, 2005. The consultations were attended by delegates from Brazil,
Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Russian
Federation, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States of America, African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO), Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO), European Patent
Office (EPO), African Intellectual Property Organization (OAPI) and the European Union.
Dr. R.A. Mashelkar, Director General of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
(CSIR) and Secretary of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research in India, chaired
the consultations.

2. The consultations were held in a positive spirit. The delegates strongly endorsed the
importance of multilateralism, in particular, in WIPO. The consultations resulted in the
development of a proposed action plan for the near future.

3. There was broad agreement that the objectives of the future work program of the SCP
should be to address issues with a view to improving the quality of granted patents, thus
avoiding unwarranted encroachments on the public domain, and to reducing unnecessary
duplication of work among Patent Offices, which should produce benefits by making the
patent system more accessible and costeffective.

4. In order to achieve these objectives, the meeting agreed that the following six issues
should be addressed in an accelerated manner within WIPO with a view to progressive
development and '''codification''' of international intellectual property law: 

'''prior art, grace period, novelty, inventive step, sufficiency of disclosure''' and genetic resources. These issues
should be addressed in '''parallel, accelerated processes, the first four issues''' (prior art, grace
period, novelty and inventive step) '''in the SCP''' and the other two issues (sufficiency of
disclosure and genetic resources) in the Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property
and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore (IGC). Each of the SCP and the
IGC should agree on a timetable and report progress on the development of their discussions
of the issues to the other.

5. The meeting underlined the importance of the continued active pursuit of discussions
and work within WIPO on issues related to development and intellectual property so that a
robust, effective and actionable WIPO Development Agenda could emerge.

6. The meeting recommended to the Director General of WIPO
(a) to call on Member States for proposals on the International Development Agenda
for discussion at the April 2005 session of the Intersessional Intergovernmental
Meeting (IIM),
(b) to convene the next session of the SCP in May 2005 to consider and endorse the
objectives and work program set out above,
(c) to convene the next session of the IGC in June 2005 to consider and endorse the
objectives and work program set out above, and
(d) to transmit the decisions of the above meetings to the General Assembly in
September 2005 for its consideration, including a time frame for the conclusion of
these issues within WIPO.

7. The meeting expressed its warm thanks and gratitude to the authorities of the Kingdom
of Morocco for hosting the consultations.

The delegate of Brazil did not associate himself with the foregoing text.
