= The Linux Ubuntu Distribution does not include MP3 players =

----

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats

Disclaimer and Legal Notice

Packages distributed in unofficial repositories are not supported by Ubuntu or Debian. Please do not file bugs caused by the use of third-party packages.

Some of the packages listed here may be illegal in your country. Use at your own risk.

Most of the formats listed here have been replaced by FreeFormats and this information is presented here for legacy and migration purposes. Be aware that the usage of non-free programs and formats cannot be supported because of the restrictions that affect them.

There are reasons why Ubuntu lacks media support for closed codecs "out of the box." A single example will be used- MP3s.

The group that holds the patent on MP3s demands that for each player with MP3 support a 75 cent fee must be paid: [WWW] http://www.mp3licensing.com/royalty/index.html

It might not seem like a lot, but when the distro is free then even such a small fee is too much. The only other option is to pay a large one time fee that could otherwise pay a developer to work on Ubuntu for a whole year! So it costs money to distribute software that plays MP3s.

If Ubuntu ignored this, it could be sued in nations like the U.S. where this patent is valid. Either Ubuntu would have to pay up or the developers could never set foot in a country with such patent laws ever again (not reasonable). So because it costs money, Ubuntu has no MP3 support.

Now take this situation and multiply it times every type of restricted software out there (that is not free like OGG), and you see what the situation is. So in order to spend money on developers, not laywers, Ubuntu has to avoid touching these codecs. Even an easier way to install them such as "click here to install" would make Ubuntu an accessory to a crime in many nations.

This is why it is important to support open codecs and standards. But Ubuntu cannot provide restricted software or make it any easier because of the law.
