## -*- dok: EMann050705; lang: en; coding: iso-8859-1; mode: fundamental; -*-
= 2005-07-05 Mann speech in Plenary =
->
[ [:PlenTrans050705En: Speeches]
| [:ErikaMannEn: Mann]
| [:SwpatcninoEn: Patent News]
]
----

''Erika Mann, a german social democrat MEP who suddenly converted to the pro-software-patent camp in April 2003 for mysterious reason, claims that companies need software patents and currently are inhibited from obtaining them and therefore need the Council's directive, and that there is a majority in the Parliament in favor of this, but certain adjustments have to be made on interoperability, asks Commission to debate these adjustments.  Transcript of English translation, speech was in German.''

I beg you pardon. Predident, commissioner, collegues, I would like to
point out on ??? collegues that during the negotionations, we have
found a majority agreeing on wanting patentability of computer
implemented inventions, and the strength of our companies depends on
that. What is the situation now, is that there are companies that want
to have patents in this area and they can't do it in fact. And the
comissioner has just pleaded in favor of more harmonization at the
European level. And what we want to avoid as well, and I think also
here collegues a agree, I think that we do not want to see an american
development on patentability, so that we see that software is patented
as software, but what we want to put in very plain language is
software to hardware, but there is really a difficulty in getting
straight-forward language for describing it because, I'd like to put
this to the Commision: We have so many proposals, but how can we do
this for example on the amendments for tomorrow, we are talking the
amendments which have been tabled with respect to interoperability. We
have the Rocard amendments, and we have also amendments from other
collegues. We have Paia Noora Kaupii's amendment and we have my
amendment, and I would like to ask the comission what its possition is
on all these various amendments. Particluarily in respect to compulsory
licenses, or the limitation exclusion when we are talking about
software to software.  Comissioner, maybe you would be kind enough to
give an opinition on that. Thank you.
