= Sarah Ludford (MEP, UK Libdem) 2004-06-08 on Software Patents =
--> [[SwpatcninoEn| News]], [[ElectUkPart0405En| UK Parties]], [[ElectUkLib0405En| UK Lib Dems]], [[SwpatukEn| UK Patent Family]], [[Libdem031208En| Libdem Youth 2003-12-08]]
----

In an answer to worried questions on software patents, Sarah Ludford of the Liberal Democrats says the
Libdems will see to it that "only" new software can be patented and that these patents do not cover the
software as such (huh?).

The answer is similar to those of Labour and Conservatives in its attempt to appease the feeling about
software patents while still in fact vowing to give the patent lobby everything it wants.

The paper shows once more that the EP libdems are taking a line which is not in agreement to that of
the Libdem policy paper of 2003, which they cite in an attempt to placate the inquirers, but rather with that of the UK patent establishment.

This response makes it clear that we must once more expect the UK Liberal Democrats to vote for software patents
and against the Parliament's majority, as they did in september 2003.

  Thank you for contacting me expressing your concerns about the
  European Commission's proposal for a Directive on the patentability of
  computer-implemented inventions.

  The Liberal Democrats addressed this issue in the Liberal Democrat IT
  policy paper "Making IT Work" which was adopted at our Spring
  Conference in 2003.  This made it clear that we are sceptical about
  the application of patents in the software field. We state that we
  would "support continued widespread innovation in software by
  resisting the wider application of patents in this area." The full
  policy paper may be of interest to you and can be read in the policy
  section of

  our website at:
  http://www.libdems.org.uk/index.cfm/page.folders/section.policy/folder.policy_papers

  This issue has remained high on the agenda of Richard Allan MP, the Liberal
  Democrat Information Technology Spokesman at Westminster, who has been
  campaigning actively for the Directive to be amended. He has raised this in
  correspondence and meetings with the relevant Ministers and liaised with us
  in the European Parliament and campaign groups.

  Most recently, Richard lobbied Jacqui Smith MP as the Minister representing
  the UK at the Council of Ministers to seek to persuade her to reconsider the
  Government's support for a draft of the Directive which seems to us too
  pro-patent.

  The European Parliament adopted its first reading on the draft Directive
  last September. The concerns of small firms and programmers were taken into
  account during our consideration of this proposed legislation.

  MEPs recognised that, due to the tendency in the USA to allow the patenting
  of computer software, there is a pressing need for legal certainty in this
  area through introduction of EU legislation. Small and medium-sized
  enterprises in particular have been concerned that patenting will restrict
  their ability to write new and better software without infringing the rules.
  At the same time, SMEs will also benefit from the legal protection that will
  be established by this Directive.

  The European Parliament voted to strictly limit patents to new inventions
  only, rather than computer programs as such, in an effort to take a balanced
  view of the Commission's proposal. The Parliament's position would ensure
  that patents in the field of computer engineering will be issued on the same
  basis in all EU Member States. Specifically, the UK Liberal Democrats
  supported an amendment to the definition, so that "In order to be
  patentable, a computer-implemented invention must be susceptible of
  industrial application and new and involve an inventive step. In order to
  involve an inventive step, a computer-implemented invention must make a
  technical contribution".

  Equally importantly, the Parliament proposed tightening up the rules on what
  cannot be patented. So a computer-implemented invention shall not be
  regarded as making a 'technical contribution' merely because it involves the
  use of a computer, network or other programmable apparatus - or because it
  improves efficiency in the use of resources within the data processing
  system.

  After the adoption of the Parliament's first reading, the proposal passed to
  the Council for consideration. In its Common Position of 18 May, the Council
  accepted some of the Parliament's amendments including those regarding the
  conditions and exclusion of patentability. According to the Council's
  position, a computer program as such cannot constitute a patentable
  invention. The patentability definition is the same as proposed by the UK
  Liberal Democrats, (already stated above).

  Since the proposed Directive comes under the co-decision procedure, both the
  Parliament and the Council have to agree on the final text. Thus the
  Parliament will have another opportunity, in a second reading, to examine,
  accept or amend the Council's proposal. It is expected that the text will
  not come back to the Parliament for the second reading until late 2004 or
  early 2005 because of the work to be done by the 'jurists-linguists', the
  specialist staff who get the translations and legal terminology right. At
  this point the legislation will be re-opened to amendments. If there is
  still no agreement between the Council and the European Parliament after the
  second reading, the proposal will go to a Conciliation procedure (face to
  face negotiations between the three EU institutions).

  I will continue to follow this issue by liaising with my MEP colleagues on
  the relevant committee when MEPs return to the Parliament after the
  elections in June. You could also address your concerns to the British
  government whose ministers and representatives sit in the Council.

  Thank you once again for contacting me about this matter.

  Yours sincerely

  Baroness Sarah Ludford MEP

  Liberal Democrat MEP for London
