#acl TrustedGroup:read All:

== Software Patents Highlight Lack of Democracy in the EU  ==
== MEPs: Dutch Council Presidency is Legislating Against Both European and National Parliaments ==

Are EU laws made by elected representatives or by unknown ministerial
bureaucrats?

A longstanding legitimacy conflict once again erupted last week, when
a representative of the Dutch Council Presidency spoke before the
European Parliament.  In a session at the Industry Committee (ITRE),
MEP David Hammerstein (Greens/EFA, Spain) accused the dutch Minister
of Economic Affairs, Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, of pressing ahead to
legalise patents on "computer-implemented" algorithms and business
methods within the European Union against the explicit will of both
the European Parliament and the Dutch National Parliament.
 
"The Dutch Parliament's motion to withdraw support from the
preliminary political Council agreement of May 18th is aggressively
suppressed by the Dutch presidency" says MEP David Hammerstein.  "The
minister representing the Dutch Presidency in the ITRE Hearing, 
Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, did not seem to like the questions
posed on software patents in last Monday's meeting. He was queried
about the future of his position in favour of patents after the Dutch
Parliament had voted clearly this July [...] Minister Brinkhorst
responded in an ambiguous, noncommittal and even disdainful manner."

On July 1st, the Dutch Parliament by a 2/3 majority passed a
resolution asking the government to withdraw the Netherlands' support
for the Council's software patent directive proposal and criticising
Brinkhorst's ministry for attempts to misinform the Parliament.
Brinkhorst however publicly announced that he would not withdraw
support for the proposal. This has prompted a parliamentary inquiry
from members of both the governing and the opposing parties.

Tensions
between the Government and the Parliament on patent policy have some
years of history in the Netherlands.  Even before Brinkhorst assumed office, the
government used the EU Council to pursue a policy framed by ministerial "patent experts",
while ignoring parliamentary decisions as well as a series of economic
studies commissioned by the same ministry, all of which disapproved of
this policy.

In other EU countries, including Germany, France, Poland, Denmark and
Hungary, similar tensions between the ministerial patent bureaucracy and
national parliaments have come to the surface.

The lack of democracy in the Council's decision mechanisms has been
recognised for decades.  One attempt at solving this problem is
the Committee of National Parliaments in the EU, the COSAC.   An annex
protocol to the Amsterdam Treaty says that these national parliaments
should be consulted by the Council and should have sufficient time
(6 weeks after translations of proposals have come out) to give input.

"National parliaments should have a greater say in the decision
process of the European Union, especially when there is a conflict
between the European Parliament and the Council" says [[choose |your MEP**]].
The Council legislates in very strange ways. Even we as MEPs do not get
access to their session minutes and working documents.  We do not know who is
pushing which interests and why.  I can't see how such intransparent 
decisionmaking can
be legitimated, if not by the will of national parliaments.  Ideally speaking, the Council's
diplomats should be loyal emissaries of national parliaments, nothing more.
That's
why the COSAC initiative is very important.  The conflict on the
software patent directive is a case in point.  It highlights an urgent need for
introduction of sound lawmaking practices in the Council."
